#OData meeting #61, Thursday,  21 Nov 2013, 0700 - 0900 PT

**Note**: For explanations of conventions and other formal aspects common to OData TC meeting minutes which are used in this document please cf. "[Formal Aspects of Meeting Minutes](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48109/formal-aspects-meeting-minutes-v1.html)".

Meeting chaired by Ram Jeyaraman

## 1 Roll call

### 1.1 Members Present:

        Dale Moberg (Axway Software)
        Diane Downie (Citrix Systems)
        Edmond Bourne (BlackBerry)
        Gerald Krause (SAP AG)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        John Willson (Individual)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)
        Matthew Borges (SAP AG) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Patrick Durusau (Individual)
        Ralf Handl (SAP AG)
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Stefan Drees (Individual)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)

Quorum achieved. Details cf. [normative attendance sheet for this meeting](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=34224).

## 2 Approval of Agenda

Approved.

## 3 Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting(s)

### 3.1 Approval of [Minutes of 2013-10-31 Meeting#59](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/51270/odata-meeting-59_on-20131031-minutes.html)

**Meeting minutes approved with no objections**.

### 3.2 Approval of [Minutes of 2013-11-04 Meeting#60](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/51290/odata-meeting-60_on-20131104-minutes.html)

**Meeting minutes approved with no objections**.

## 4 Review of [Action Items](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php) (AI) and Progress [AIH]

Context:
> See the "[List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting][AI_REF]" section in the appendix.

###4.1 Action items due by 2013-11-21 (end of day)

None.

###4.2 Action items NOT due by 2013-11-21 (end of day) but MAY be ready for closure

None.



## 5. OData Extension for Data Aggregation

### 5.1 Status of Public Review of OData Extension for Data Aggregation Committee Specification Draft 01

OData Extension for Data Aggregation Committee Specification Draft 01 successfully completed a 30-day public review on Sept 19, 2013. There were no comments arising from that public review.
All issues filed so far on this spec have been addressed.

### 5.2 Pending issues?

Are there more issues any one plans to file on the specification? If so, by when?

### 5.3 Discussion

Lets discuss our plans and timeline for further advancing this specification towards Committee Specification.

All: The TC agrees to start progressing the data aggregation extension in a meeting on December, 12

## 6. OData Extension for Temporal Data

### 6.1 Initial Proposal

We had earlier talked about crafting an initial proposal to seed this work. Who has the pen on it?

Discussion:

* Ralf reports, that the notes from the Littleton and Zurich meetings have been embedded in the seeding document. Also the json repsonses for the sample queries have been assembled. The work is ongoing.

### 6.2 Next Steps

What are the next steps?

Discussion:

* Ram asks, if at the end of next year (2014) we will see data aggregation and temporal extensions as standard?
* Mike thinks this depends on real implementations pushing these extensions
* All discuss the matter
* Mike summarizes, that in the short term the data aggregation stuff will be more important, but that the temporal will be prepared behind the scenes
* All agree.

## 7. Timeline and next steps

## 7.1 Dec 2013 through Jan 2014

###7.1.1 60-day public review

## 7.2 Feb 2014

### 7.2.1 OASIS Standard

## 8. Vacation plans during December 2013 and January 2014

Now that we are approaching the holiday season, lets discuss who is available when, so we can pick suitable dates to meet during December 2013 and January 2014.

Discussion:

* Stefan vacation: [2013-12-18, 2014-01-02], prefers thus December 12th
  and will (presumably) not be available December 19
* Matt is fine for all of December except the 26th.

## 9. Next meetings

### 9.1 Thursday December 12, 2013 during 8-10am PT?

Agreed.

### 9.2 January 16, 2014 during 8-10am PT?

Discussion:

* All agree to meet in January 9th (possibly postponing that later to the 16th of January)

## 10. AOB

None

Meeting adjourned at 0841 PT.

## List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting [AI_REF]

**Retrieval time stamp**: `2013-11-21 12:34 +01:00`.

None.

**Note**: The actual action item processing is documented in section [4][AIH] and subsections thereof.

## Index of Issues Processed During the Meeting [IP_REF]

Public Comments:

None.

JIRA Issues:

None.

## Timeline Reference [TL_REF]

**Note**: Please cf. the current revision of the [TC timeline](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50823/TC%20Timeline%206.htm).


