#OData meeting #72, Thursday,   01 May 2014, 0800 - 1000 PDT

**Note**: For explanations of conventions and other formal aspects common to OData TC meeting minutes which are used in this document please cf. "[Formal Aspects of Meeting Minutes](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48109/formal-aspects-meeting-minutes-v1.html)".

Meeting chaired by Ram Jeyaraman

## 1 Roll call

### 1.1 Members Present:

        Dale Moberg (Axway Software)
        Edmond Bourne (BlackBerry)
        Gerald Krause (SAP AG)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        John Willson (Individual)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Matthew Borges (SAP AG) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Patrick Durusau (Individual)
        Ralf Handl (SAP AG)
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)

Quorum achieved. Details cf. [normative attendance sheet for this meeting](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=36539).

## 2 Approval of Agenda

Approved as published.

## 3 Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting(s)

### 3.1 Approval of [Minutes of 2014-04-24 Meeting#71](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/52864/odata-meeting-71_on-20140424-minutes.html)

**Meeting minutes approved as published with no objections**.

## 4 Review of [Action Items](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php) (AI) and Progress [AIH]

Context:
> See the "[List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting][AI_REF]" section in the appendix.

###4.1 Action items due by 2014-05-01 (end of day)

None.

###4.2 Action items NOT due by 2014-05-01 (end of day) but MAY be ready for closure

None.

## 5 Review of [Timeline][TL_REF]

All review the [timeline][TL_REF]. No changes since last meeting.

## 6 Review of [Issues List](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&mode=hide&pid=10103&sorter/field=issuekey&sorter/order=ASC) (IL) and Progress [IPH]

**Notes**:

* Issues in this section (6) may have been progressed out of sequence, but have been noted here to better group by components impacted or state before the meeting and as a service for the reader.
* There is an "[Index of Issues Processed During the Meeting][IP_REF]" section in the appendix.

### 6.1 OData v4 Errata issues in New or Open state [ga_01]

Hubert:
>I **move** to resolve issues ODATA-639, ODATA-641, and ODATA-646 as proposed. **Ralf seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.


### 6.1.1 [ODATA-646](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-646)

ODATA-646:
"Clarify; returning content from a data modification should be same as GET" [component: OData Protocol] is **Open**

Note:
> For details cf. [6.1][ga_01] where the motion is documented.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-646:
"Clarify; returning content from a data modification should be same as GET" [component: OData Protocol] is **Proposed** with no objections.

### 6.1.2 [ODATA-645](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-645)

ODATA-645:
"Default for PUT/PATCH is not to return data" [component: OData Protocol] is **Open**

* All agree to wait with ODATA-645 and do some more digging perhaps an implementation guide to clarify this

ODATA-645:
"Default for PUT/PATCH is not to return data" [component: OData Protocol] is **Open**

### 6.1.3 [ODATA-600](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-600)

ODATA-600:
"Ensure future compatibility by reference to draft-bray-i-json-n (The I-JSON Message Format)" [component: OData JSON Format] is **Open**

* All aggree to carry over to the F2F meeting

ODATA-600:
"Ensure future compatibility by reference to draft-bray-i-json-n (The I-JSON Message Format)" [component: OData JSON Format] is **Open**

### 6.1.4 [ODATA-639](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-639)

ODATA-639:
"MetadataService.edmx: Schema annotations have to be represented inline" [component: OData CSDL] is **New**

Note:
> For details cf. [6.1][ga_01] where the motion is documented.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-639:
"MetadataService.edmx: Schema annotations have to be represented inline" [component: OData CSDL] is **Proposed** with no objections.

### 6.1.5 [ODATA-641](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-641)

ODATA-641:
"MetadataService.edmx: Property IncludeInServiceDocument is missing for entity type EntitySet" [component: OData CSDL] is **New**

Note:
> For details cf. [6.1][ga_01] where the motion is documented.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-641:
"MetadataService.edmx: Property IncludeInServiceDocument is missing for entity type EntitySet" [component: OData CSDL] is **Proposed** with no objections.


### 6.1.6 [ODATA-606](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-606)

ODATA-606:
"Specify navigation property binding combined with containment" [component: OData CSDL] is **Open**

* All agree to defer this issues resolution to the F2F

ODATA-606:
"Specify navigation property binding combined with containment" [component: OData CSDL] is **Open**

### 6.1.7 [ODATA-596](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-596)

ODATA-596:
"Discrepancy between order of elements for geo-positions between GeoJSON and GML may cause interoperability difficulties." [components: OData JSON Format, OData ATOM Format] is **New**


* All agree, that more information is needed

ODATA-596:
"Discrepancy between order of elements for geo-positions between GeoJSON and GML may cause interoperability difficulties." [components: OData JSON Format, OData ATOM Format] is **Open**

##### 6.1.7.1 End fo Issue Processing [eoip]

Note:
>All issues scheduled for processing have been processed.


## 7 Next meeting

The next meeting will be the face-to-face meeting starting Thursday May 15, 0900 PDT.

### 7.1 The 6th face-to-face meeting (Redmond, WA, USA)

Discussion:

* First day meeting: Thursday May 15, 2014, 9am – 12noon PDT

* Second day meeting: Friday May 16, 2014, 9am – 12noon PDT

* Logistics: E-Mail from Mike with subject [Logistic Information for 6th OData TC Face to Face in Redmond, WA USA](https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata/201404/msg00072.html)

* Agenda for F2F to follow soon


## 8 AOB

No other business

Meeting adjourned at 0843 PDT.


## List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting [AI_REF]

**Retrieval time stamp**: `2014-05-01 12:13 +02:00`.

None.

**Note**: The actual action item processing is documented in section [4][AIH] and subsections thereof.

## Index of Issues Processed During the Meeting [IP_REF]

**Note**: The actual issue processing is documented in sections [6][IPH]. The below index has two main parts: First come the public comments (if any), second the JIRA issues. Each list of issues is sorted by ascending issue number. Noted are the ID, the summary and the reference to the relevant subsection where the issue progression has been documented:

Public Comments:

        None.

JIRA Issues:

* [ODATA-596](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-596) "Discrepancy between order of elements for geo-positions between GeoJSON and GML may cause interoperability difficulties." [6.1.7][odata-596]

* [ODATA-600](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-600) "Ensure future compatibility by reference to draft-bray-i-json-n (The I-JSON Message Format)" [6.1.3][odata-600]

* [ODATA-606](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-606) "Specify navigation property binding combined with containment" [6.1.6][odata-606]

* [ODATA-639](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-639) "MetadataService.edmx: Schema annotations have to be represented inline" [6.1.4][odata-639]

* [ODATA-641](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-641) "MetadataService.edmx: Property IncludeInServiceDocument is missing for entity type EntitySet" [6.1.5][odata-641]

* [ODATA-645](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-645) "Default for PUT/PATCH is not to return data" [6.1.2][odata-645]

* [ODATA-646](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-646) "Clarify; returning content from a data modification should be same as GET" [6.1.1][odata-646]


## Timeline Reference [TL_REF]

**Note**: Please cf. the current revision of the [TC timeline](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/52831/TC%20Timeline%207.htm).

