<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
<title>OData TC meeting #98 Thursday May 21, 2015</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>OData TC meeting #98 Thursday May 21, 2015</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ralf</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2015-05-21 0800-1000 PDT
</pre>
<h3>1. Roll call</h3>

<h4>1.1 Members present</h4>
<pre>
        Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        Jason Fam (IBM)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)
        Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Ralf Handl (SAP SE)
        Stefan Hagen (Individual)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=39097">normative attendance sheet for this meeting</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h3>2. Approve agenda</h3>
<p>Agenda approved as published. </p>

<h3>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h3>

<h4>3.1 Minutes from May 07, 2015 TC meeting #97: </h4>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/55618/odata-meeting-97_on-20150507-minutes.html">Meeting#97 on 2015-MAY-07</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published</p>

<h3>4. Review action items</h3>
URL=<a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php">Action item list at https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php</a>

<h4>4.1 Action items due by May 21, 2015</h4>

<h5>4.1.1 Follow up with JSON-Schema on use for modeling</h5>

<p>No news./p>

<h3>5. Discuss scope of TC work for the next 12-18 months</h3>

<h4>5.1 Topics</h4>

<p>Mike: OData V4 is gaining traction</p>
<p>Mike: also see some resistance/push-back due to perceived complexity</p>
<p>Mike: make OData more appealing</p>
<p>Mike: tackle problems people have run into when implementing OData</p>
<p>Ted: it is important to focus on adoption and addressing concerns</p>
<p>Ted: main question: is an OData service really better than a custom REST service? Why?</p>
<p>Ted: seems to be general misunderstanding of OData</p>
<p>Ted: offer a Webinar on OData from the TC</p>
<p>Brent: formalize more around streaming</p>
<p>Brent: more about performance</p>
<p>Brent: zipped JSON versus BSON or other binary format</p>
<p>Mark: anything to get people started, get a simple service up and running quickly</p>
<p>Mark: then gradually leverage the power the spec gives you</p>
<p>Mike: common authentication model</p>
<p>Mike: allow clients to generically connect to services</p>
<p>Mike: have vocabulary describing supported authentication mechanisms</p>
<p>Mike: themes:
<ul><li>adoption</li>
<li>technical problems</li>
<li>catalog of end points</li>
<li>extensibility</li></ul></p>
<p>Susan: how is the progress with ISO, and does this affect our plans?</p>
<p>Mike: will check with Ram on status</p>
<p>Mike: work we do now needs to submitted to ISO separately</p>
<p>Mike: OData-TC remains keeper of the spec</p>
<p>Mike: a lot of work not spec-related</p>
<p>Martin: continue work on Data Aggregation and Temporal extensions</p>
<p>Mike: .NET library received contribution on Data Aggregation</p>
<p>Ralf: check with Olingo team which steps they are taking</p>
<p>Mike: would be helpful to have statement of goals for next 12-18 months</p>

<h5>5.1.1 JSON for $metadata</h5>

<p>cf. 5.1</p>

<h5>5.1.2 V4.1 as a compatible protocol version with version negotiation: Issues for V4.1_WD01</h5>

<h5>5.1.3 I-REST / ... profile</h5>

<h4>5.2 Actions</h4>


<h5>5.2.1 Recharter the TC?</h5>

<p>Current Charter: <a href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/odata/charter.php" target="_blank">http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/odata/charter.php</a></p>

<p>Process description for Rechartering: <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/tc-process#rechartering" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/tc-process#rechartering</a></p>

<p>Martin: formulate our goals in the form of a revised charter, then check if we need to go through the process</p>
<p>Topics:<br>
JSON for $metadata, XML is an inhibitor to adoption<br>
V4.1 targeted at adoption inhibitors<br>
Profile for simple REST services based on OData patterns<br>
Continue work on Data Aggregation and Temporal<br>
Whitepaper in implementing OData: continue, check which goes into V4.1 or REST profile and which into the whitepaper<br>
</p>
<p>Martin: HTTP/2 is standardized, used by first browsers - investigate how that affects OData</p>
<p>Martin: can we leverage e.g. server push</p>
<p>Mike: seems very interesting</p>
<p>Martin: Chrome and FireFox already use it, Google will discontinue SPDY and move to HTTP/2</p>
<p>Martin will give presentation -&gt; Action Item</p>
<p>Matt: Yes I definitely agree</p>
<p>Mike will summarize this discussion into a "Goals" description</p>
<p>Martin: decide on format for "REST profile"</p>
<p>Mike: Could be (part of) V4.1 specification
<p>Use Label mechanism of Jira to categorize issues
<p>Possible labels:<br>
-AdoptionBlocker<br>
-- recurring issue, not just nice to have<br>
- GoodIdea<br>
-- not yet reported as an issue by (potential) adopters<br>
- NeedsFurtherJustification<br>
-- adds too much complexity<br>
- Clarification<br>
-- things that need defining but don't qualify for an Errata<br><br>
Note: (Renamed "RatherNot" to "NeedsFurtherJustification" duringmeeting)<br>
</p>
<p>ODATA-813 Allow no metadata for non-OData clients</p>
<p>ODATA-812 Allow omitting namespaces for unambiguous functions/actions</p>
<p>ODATA-811 Define propagation and (partial) overriding of annotations</p>
<p>ODATA-809 Define non-message format for final response of async request</p>
<p>ODATA-799 Define Key-As-Segment URL convention for resource paths</p>
<p>ODATA-798 Semantic Key or Alternate Key for entity types</p>
<p>New category: Extension - something that the V4 spec allows but doesn't describe</p>
<p>ODATA-786 Extend definition of edmath expression</p>
<p>New tag - Usability (from the client developer's perspective)</p>
<p>ODATA-763 Allowing implicit aliasing of parameters (public comment c201412e00001)<br>
GET http://serviceroot/Add(a=@a,b=@b)?@a=1&amp;@b=1.<br>
http://serviceroot/Add()?@a=1&amp;@b=1.<br>
http://serviceroot/Add()?a=1&amp;b=1.<br>
<p>Action item for all: go over remaining issues and attach labels. Just add, don't remove, we'll resolve that in a future meeting</p>


<h3>6. Process Issues (for Data Aggregation in New or Open state)</h3>
<h4>6.1 OData JSON Format</h4>
<h5>6.1.1 ODATA-807 "Don't need TargetId in a deleted link for a to 0..1 relationship"</h5>

<p>ODATA-807 is OPEN</p>
<p>Mike: add comment to Errata03 that clients should not rely on the target to be present in this case</p>
<p>Mike: Revised proposal for 807: Provide guidance to clients that they should not require targetid for deleted link for a to 0..1 relationship.</p>
<p>Martin: I move to resolve ODATA 807 as proposed (revised proposal). Mike seconds</p>
<p>ODATA-807 is resolved as proposed</p> 

<h4>6.2 OData Vocabularies</h4>

<h5>6.2.1 ODATA-808 "ODATA-796 Minor changes to new OnlyDeclaredProperties annotation"</h5>
<p>ODATA-808 is OPEN</p>
<p>Mike: I move we resolve ODATA-808 as proposed. Martin seconds</p>
<p>ODATA-808 is resolved as proposed</p>
 
<h3>7. Next meeting</h3>

<p>Thursday Jun 11, 2015 during 8-10am PDT / 17:00-19:00 CEST ?</p>
<p>Agreed</p>


<h3>8. AOB and wrap up</h3>

<p>None</p>

<h3>Meeting adjourned</h3>

</body>
</html>
