#OData meeting #56, Thursday, 10 Oct 2013, 0800 - 0900 PT

**Note**: For explanations of conventions and other formal aspects common to OData TC meeting minutes which are used in this document please cf. "[Formal Aspects of Meeting Minutes](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48109/formal-aspects-meeting-minutes-v1.html)".

Meeting chaired by Ram Jeyaraman

## 1 Roll call

### 1.1 Members Present:

        Edmond Bourne (BlackBerry)
        Gerald Krause (SAP AG)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        John Willson (Individual)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)
        Matthew Borges (SAP AG) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Nuno Linhares (SDL)
        Patrick Durusau (Individual)
        Ralf Handl (SAP AG)
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Stan Mitranic (CA Technologies)
        Stefan Drees (Individual)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)

Quorum achieved. Details cf. [normative attendance sheet for this meeting](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=34218).

## 2 Approval of Agenda

Approved.

## 3 Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting(s)

### 3.1 Approval of [Minutes of 2013-10-03 Meeting#55](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50924/odata-meeting-55_on-20131003-minutes.html)

**Meeting minutes approved with no objections**.

## 4 Review of [Action Items](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php) (AI) and Progress [AIH]

Context:
> See the "[List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting][AI_REF]" section in the appendix.

###4.1 Action items due by 2013-10-10 (end of day)

None.

###4.2 Action items NOT due by 2013-10-10 (end of day) but MAY be ready for closure

None.

##5   Election of co-Chair position

###5.1 Call for nomination

See mail with subject "[Call for nominations for the TC co-Chair position](https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata/201309/msg00336.html)"" to the odata mailing list

###5.2 Nominations so far

See mail with subject "[RE: Call for nominations for the TC co-Chair position](https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata/201310/msg00137.html)

Discussion:

* Ram shortly explains the process and status

###5.3 Vote of Co-Chair

Stefan:
>I **move** Ralf Handl will be elected as Co-Chair of the OData TC by unanimous consent. **Hubert seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

Note:
> Dr. Ralf Handl is now one of the co-chairs of the TC.

##6 Review of [Issues List](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&mode=hide&pid=10103&sorter/field=issuekey&sorter/order=ASC) (IL) and Progress [IPH]

**Notes**:

* Issues in this section (6) may have been progressed out of sequence, but have been noted here to better group by components impacted or state before the meeting and as a service for the reader.
* There is an "[Index of Issues Processed During the Meeting][IP_REF]" section in the appendix.

###6.1 Issues on CSD03 in New or Open state

####6.1.1 OData Batch Processing Format [cobatch]

#####6.1.1.1 [ODATA-547](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-547)

ODATA-547:
: "Clarify that the standard resources $id, $entity, $batch etc. win over content-id referencing" [component: OData Batch Processing Format] is **New**.

Discussion:

* Ralf summarizes the issue.
* The TC agrees this proposal does not add or remove any feature. The change is more along the lines of an editorial clarification of the behavior.

Hubert:
>I **move** to resolve ODATA-547 as proposed. **Ralf seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-547:
: "Clarify that the standard resources $id, $entity, $batch etc. win over content-id referencing" [component: OData Batch Processing Format] is **Resolved** with no objections.

####6.1.2 OData ABNF Construction Rules [coabnf]

#####6.1.2.1 [ODATA-548](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-548)

ODATA-548:
: "Clarify pattern for future odata-version and odata-maxversion numbers" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **New**.

Discussion:

* Ralf summarizes the issue.
* The TC agrees this proposal does not add or remove any feature. The change is more along the lines of an editorial clarification of the behavior.

Hubert:
>I **move** to resolve ODATA-548 as proposed. **Mike seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-548:
: "Clarify pattern for future odata-version and odata-maxversion numbers" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **Resolved** with no objections.


######6.1.2.1.1 End of Issue Processing [eoip]

Note:
>All issues scheduled for processing have been processed.


##7 Non-Material changes to CSD03?

###7.1 Are there any such changes identified so far?

Context:
> The document [CSD03 Summary of Non-Material Changes](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50993/CSD03%20Summary%20of%20Non-Material%20Changes%202013-10-10.docx) is shared during meeting to focus discussion.

Discussion:

* All discuss the current state

Mike:
>I **move** I move we accept the changes described in the [CSD03 Summary of Non-Material Changes](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50993/CSD03%20Summary%20of%20Non-Material%20Changes%202013-10-10.docx) as non-material editorial changes. **Martin seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.


##8 Review revised [TC timeline][TL_REF] and immediate next steps

###8.1 Public review of OData v4, OData JSON Format v4, OData ATOM Format v4 Work Products?

Discussion:

* Ram summarizes the state of public review (no change so far).

###8.2 Statement of Use (preferably issued before Oct 31st or earlier if possible)?

Discussion:

* Ram summarizes the state
* All discuss the next steps and how to deal with the dependencies between Statemanets of use and CS02 vs. CSD03 documents.
* Ram will clarify with the TC admin.

##9 Next meetings

###9.1 October 17, 2013 during 8-9am PT

Agreed.

##10 AOB

None.

Meeting adjourned on 0903 PT

## List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting [AI_REF]

**Retrieval time stamp**: `2013-10-10 13:32 +02:00`.

None.

**Note**: The actual action item processing is documented in section [4][AIH] and subsections thereof.

## Index of Issues Processed During the Meeting [IP_REF]

**Note**: The actual issue processing is documented in sections [6][IPH]. The below index has two main parts: First come the public comments (if any), second the JIRA issues. Each list of issues is sorted by ascending issue number. Noted are the ID, the summary and the reference to the relevant subsection where the issue progression has been documented:

Public Comments:

None.

JIRA Issues:

* [ODATA-547](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-547) "Clarify that the standard resources $id, $entity, $batch etc. win over content-id referencing" [6.1.1.1][odata-547]
* [ODATA-548](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-548) "Clarify pattern for future odata-version and odata-maxversion numbers" [6.1.2.1][odata-548]

## Timeline Reference [TL_REF]

**Note**: Please cf. the current revision of the [TC timeline](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50823/TC%20Timeline%206.htm).


