#OData meeting #67, Thursday,  27 Feb 2014, 0700 - 0900 PT

**Note**: For explanations of conventions and other formal aspects common to OData TC meeting minutes which are used in this document please cf. "[Formal Aspects of Meeting Minutes](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48109/formal-aspects-meeting-minutes-v1.html)".

Meeting chaired by Ram Jeyaraman

## 1 Roll call

### 1.1 Members Present:

        Edmond Bourne (BlackBerry)
        Gerald Krause (SAP AG)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        John Willson (Individual)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)
        Matthew Borges (SAP AG) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Patrick Durusau (Individual)
        Ralf Handl (SAP AG)
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Ron Dagostino (State Street Corp)
        Stefan Drees (Individual)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)

Quorum achieved. Details cf. [normative attendance sheet for this meeting](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=36530).

## 2 Approval of Agenda

Approved.

## 3 Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting(s)

### 3.1 Approval of [Minutes of 2014-02-13 Meeting#66](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/52207/odata-meeting-66_on-20140213-minutes.html)

**Meeting minutes approved as published with no objections**.

## 4 Review of [Action Items](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php) (AI) and Progress [AIH]

Context:
> See the "[List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting][AI_REF]" section in the appendix.

###4.1 Action items due by 2014-02-27 (end of day)

None.

###4.2 Action items NOT due by 2014-02-27 (end of day) but MAY be ready for closure

None.


## 5 OData Core timeline and next steps

### 5.1 OData (Open Data Protocol) v4 and OData JSON Format v4 specifications

Both have been approved as an OASIS Standard!
Congratulations to the TC for a job well done!

#### 5.1.1 OData v4 approval ballot

Internal link: [https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/voting/ballot.php?id=2568](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/voting/ballot.php?id=2568)

Publicly visible link:  [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/ballot.php?id=2568](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/ballot.php?id=2568)

#### 5.1.2 OData JSON Format v4 approval ballot

Internal link: [https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/voting/ballot.php?id=2569](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/voting/ballot.php?id=2569)

Publicly visible link:  [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/ballot.php?id=2569](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/ballot.php?id=2569)

### 5.2 OASIS Press release (planned on March 13)

#### 5.2.1 Request for member quotes (by March 11)

[Request for member quotes](https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata/201402/msg00020.html)

Discussion:

* All are very excited and happy to have reached this milestone after a year of work.
* Ed thinks this standard will open up a lot of mobility applications that older standards like SOAP made more difficult then they should.
* All exchange thoughts about the possibility to request from OASIS as a PAS submitter to ISO JTC1 (PAS=Publicly available Standard) to submit OData OASIS Standard further to ISO to obtain the status of an international standard

## 6 OData Extension for Data Aggregation

### 6.1 Committee Specification approval ballot

The [Ballot](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/ballot.php?id=2573) succeeded.

### 6.2 Next steps?

Now it's time to implement. All are interested in further progressing the OData Extension for Data Aggregation

## 7 OData Extension for Temporal Data

### 7.1 Status and next steps

Discussion:

* Ralf will finish combining the results from editor discussions and then present this to the TC
* All discuss the direction and first steps maintaining the OData COre and JSON specs by starting errata documents and probably support users by further completing securing OData document
* Equally all share the opinion, that issuing errata or minor updated version too early might slow down further international standards processes (eg. if submitting to ISO)
* Ralf will try to enter all internal at SAP collected issues/suggestions from implementer experiences into JIRA before next meeting, so we can all discuss them if these should go into errata or may seed committee notes fostering the further usage



## 8 Next meetings

All agree, that next meeting tentatively will be on Mar 13, 8-9 am PDT

**Update** (_from the secretary_): Please take into account, that this coming Sunday, 09 March, some countries shift to Daylight Savings Time (DST). Clocks in the US and Canada will be adjusted forward 1 hr at 2:00 a.m. Other countries with daylight saving shifts will follow later, ie. in Europe the shift will take place at 2014-03-30 between midnight and 04:00 local time depending on the country. So please translate the time for the tentative meetings on March, 13 and 27 accordingly. Thanks.

## 9. AOB

None.

Meeting adjourned at 0848 PT.


## List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting [AI_REF]

**Retrieval time stamp**: `2014-02-27 15:15 +01:00`.

None.

**Note**: The actual action item processing is documented in section [4][AIH] and subsections thereof.

## Index of Issues Processed During the Meeting [IP_REF]

**Note**: The below index has two main parts: First come the public comments (if any), second the JIRA issues. Each list of issues is sorted by ascending issue number. Noted are the ID, the summary and the reference to the relevant subsection where the issue progression has been documented:

Public Comments:

None.

JIRA Issues:

None.

## Timeline Reference [TL_REF]

**Note**: Please cf. the current revision of the [TC timeline](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50823/TC%20Timeline%206.htm).

