<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OData TC meeting #137 Thursday Jul 14, 2016</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}img,pre,blockquote,table,figure{page-break-inside:avoid}
.footnotes{page-break-before:always}#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OData TC meeting #137 Thursday Jul 14, 2016</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ram</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2016-07-14 0800-1000 PDT
</pre>
<h2>1. Roll call</h2>


<h3>1.1 Members present</h3>
<pre>
        Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP SE)
        Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
        Ralf Handl (SAP SE)
        Ram Jeyaraman (microsoft)
        Ramesh Reddy (Red Hat)
        Stefan Hagen (Individual)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=41471">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=41471)</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h2>2. Approve agenda</h2>

<p>Mike: New Issues:<br>
2.ODATA-957 Do we impose a format for SchemaVersion?<br>
ODATA-956 Do we need to add SchemaVersion to ContextURL?<br>
ODATA-953 Consider deprecating structural casting<br>
1.ODATA-954 Key-As-Segment for multi-part keys</p>
<p>Ralf: Tackle new issues between sections 5.1 and 5.2</p>

<p>Agenda is approved with above modification.</p>

<h2>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h2>

<h3>3.1 Minutes from July 07, 2016 TC meeting #136</h3>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/58470/odata-meeting-136_on-20160707-minutes.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/58470/odata-meeting-136_on-20160707-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published.</p>


<h2>4. Review action items</h2>

<h3>4.1 Action items due July 31, 2016</h3>

<h4>4.1.1 AI#0036 - "Register the OData- headers and preferences with IANA"</h4>
<p>Action #0036 remains open</p>


<h2>5. CSDL JSON Document review</h2>
<p>Ralf walks all through the documents current revisions</p>
<p>Ram: There was a side discussion about producing RAML description of OData services similar to what we are exploring today with Swagger 2.0. We should discuss this further and see if there is value in doing this.</p>
<p>Ram: There was a discussion about the use of X- extensions to Swagger or Open API definitions, and how to minimize them. It was observed that it is impossible to fully avoid it. In order to reduce OData specific extensions, we could work with Swagger Open API folks to adopt some of these extensions, or work in IETF to enhance JSON Schema capabilities which would over time trickle down to Open API and RAML at some point.</p>

<p>Ram: The JSON CSDL document is expected to get to CSD02 in the next few months. At that point, we will get more feedback from the Open API specification community.</p>

<h3>6. Next meetings</h3>

<h4>6.1 Next Meeting Thursday July 21, 2016 06-10 PDT</h4>
<p>Agreed</p>
<p>Ralf: Please all take note of the (again) earlier meeting start time and longer duration from 6am-10am PDT.</p>

<h3>7. AOB and wrap up</h3>

<p>None</p>

<p>Meeting adjourned by chair.</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>