Title:	Meeting minutes of OASIS OData TC's Conference Call #11
Date:	Thursday, 11 Oct 2012, 0800 - 0900 PT    
Author:	Stefan Drees <stefan@drees.name>  

# OData Conference Call #11, Thursday, 11 Oct 2012,  0800 - 0900 PT #

Meeting chaired by: Barabara Hartel


## 1. Roll call##
 
### 1.1 Members Present:###
 
        Andrew Eisenberg (IBM)        Barbara Hartel (SAP AG)        Christopher Woodruff (Perficient, Inc.)        Colleen Evans (Microsoft)        Diane Downie (Citrix Systems)        Diane Jordan (IBM)        Farrukh Najmi (Individual)        Gerald Krause (SAP AG)        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)        Jeffrey Turpin (Axway Software)        John Willson (Individual)        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)        Matthew Borges (SAP AG)        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft)        Ralf Handl (SAP AG)        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)        Sanjay Patil (SAP AG)        Stan Mitranic (CA Technologies)        Stefan Drees (Individual)        Susan Malaika (IBM)        Ted Jones (Red Hat)### 1.2 On Leave of Absence:###
 
        Robert Richards (Mashery)
Quorum achieved. Details cf. [normative attendance sheet for this meeting](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=33456).


## 2. Approval of Agenda##

Agenda approved as published.


## 3. Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting(s)##

### 3.1 Approval of [Minutes of 2012-10-04 Meeting#10](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/47126/odata_meeting-10_on-20121004-minutes.html):###

**Meeting minutes approved with no objections**.


## 4. Review of [Action Items](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php) (AI) and Progress##

>Context: The ownership of action items is noted `[owner: Given Family]` and as indicated by [AI-List-Tool](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php) retrieved `2012-10-11 14:45 +02:00`.


AI#0003
: "Come up with examples / usecases (and proposals) for open types and document annotation for JSON extensions document" [owner: Susan Malaika] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-11-05)

AI#0005
: "Come up with a first milestine for the temporal extension" [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-10-11)

AI#0006
: "Come up with estimate for first milestone for XML data extension" [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-10-11)

AI#0007
: "Come up with estimate for first milestone for JSON data extension" [owner: Susan Malaika] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-10-11)

AI#0008
: "Recording of TC meetings" [owner: Hubert Heijkers] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-11-05)

AI#0017
: "Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for Data Aggregation" [owner: Ralf Handl] is **Ongoing**

AI#0018
: "Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for Temporal Data" [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is **Ongoing**

AI#0019
: "Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for XML Data" [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is **Ongoing**

AI#0020
: "Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for JSON Data" [owner: Susan Malaika] is **Ongoing**
  
AI#0026
: "Detail a proposal with regard to enumerations" [owner: Mike Pizzo] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-11-15)

AI#0027
: "Merge [ODATA-BATCH] into [ODATA-CORE]" [owner: Mike Pizzo] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-10-10)

###4.1 Action items due by 2012-10-11 (end of day)###

Discussion:

* Susan asks to defer the AIs 5,6 and 7 to next face to face meeting.

All: Agreed.

####4.1.1 [AI#0005](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3462)####

AI#0005
: "Come up with a first milestone for the temporal extension" [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-11-09)

####4.1.2 [AI#0006](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3463)####

AI#0006
: "Come up with estimate for first milestone for XML data extension" [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-11-09)


####4.1.3 [AI#0007](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3464)####

AI#0007
: "Come up with estimate for first milestone for JSON data extension" [owner: Susan Malaika] is **Ongoing** (Note: Due 2012-11-09)


####4.1.4 [AI#0027](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3537)####

AI#0027
: "Merge [ODATA-BATCH] into [ODATA-CORE]" [owner: Mike Pizzo] is **closed as completed**.


###4.2 Action items NOT due by 2012-10-11 but MAY be ready for closure###

None.


##5. Face to Face Meetings##

###5.1 2<sup>nd</sup> Face to Face November 2012
Context:
>2<sup>nd</sup> F2F Nov 8-9, 2012 in Littleton, MA. Details are available at [https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=33706](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=33706). Any questions?

Discussion:

None.

###5.2 3<sup>rd</sup> Face to Face Meeting
Context:
>Jan 29-31, 2013? Let's discuss and determine dates, host, and venue.

Discussion:

* Hubert states that one proposal for the venue will be near an IBM branch in Zurich, Switzerland
* John and Stefan welcome that.


##6 Review of [Issues List](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&mode=hide&pid=10103&sorter/field=issuekey&sorter/order=ASC) (IL) and Progress##


###6.1 Applied resolutions###

####6.1.1 [ODATA-88](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-88)####

ODATA-88
: "The term EDMX wrapper should be explicitly declared once." [component: OData CSDL] is **proposed**. 

Ralf: 
>I **move** to close ODATA-88. **Hubert seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-88
: "The term EDMX wrapper should be explicitly declared once." [component: OData CSDL] is **applied** with no objections. 

###6.2 Issues in New and Proposed state###

Note:
>Some agenda sequence questions arose and were resolved by not following the agenda agreed upon in item 2, but another one, as documented by these minutes.

####6.2.1 [ODATA-66](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-66)####

ODATA-66
: "10.1 Collection Types: enumeration types are missing from list of types usable with attribute notation" [component: OData CSDL] is **new**. 

Ralf: 
>I **move** to close ODATA-66. **Mike seconds**.

ODATA-66
: "10.1 Collection Types: enumeration types are missing from list of types usable with attribute notation" [component: OData CSDL] is **proposed** with no objections. 

####6.2.2 [ODATA-80](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-80)####

ODATA-80
: "Add ABNF rules for requests and responses in JSON" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **new**. 

Discussion:

* Ralf asks to defer ODATA-80

All: Agreed.

ODATA-80
: "Add ABNF rules for requests and responses in JSON" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **defered** with no objections. 


####6.2.3 [ODATA-127](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-127)####

ODATA-127
: "Whitespace in URLs must be percent-encoded" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **new**. 

Discussion:

* Mark +1 for the partially decoded approach
* Stefan cites this as "Follow the proposal in ODATA-137 and require URI query parts to be partially percent-decoded before applying the grammar rules."


Ralf: 
>I **move** to accept ODATA-127 as proposed in the second branch (partially decode). **Hubert seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-127
: "Whitespace in URLs must be percent-encoded" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **resolved as described in second branch** with no objections. 


####6.2.4 [ODATA-128](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-128)####

ODATA-128
: "Restrict scheme in OData URIs to http and https" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **new**. 

Mike: 
>I **move** we accept ODATA-128 as proposed. **Martin seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-128
: "Restrict scheme in OData URIs to http and https" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **proposed** with no objections. 



####6.2.5 [ODATA-131](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-131)####

ODATA-131
: "Canonical URL for media resources" [components: OData ABNF Construction Rules, OData URL Conventions] is **new**. 

Martin: 
>I **move** accept ODATA-131 as proposed in the second branch. **Stefan seconds**.

Discussion of motion:

* Mike agrees that *any* URL convention should support temporary/permanent redirects. Perhaps we should add this to the introduction in Section 4, Resource Path of the URL Conventions document?
* Martin sees this as normal expected behavioutr of HTTP services
* Ralf adds that client programmers have to expect and handle redirects
* Mike asks where this amendment shall go?
* Ralf suggests core part 1 (protocol behaviour) and in the url conventions is also a good place to state this fact

Mike: 
>I **move** to amend the proposal to add the comment that a service may respond with a temporary or permanent redirect to Section 4 of URL Conventions along with Core, Part I. **Hubert seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **amendment passes**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **amended motion passes**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-131
: "Canonical URL for media resources" [components: OData ABNF Construction Rules, OData URL Conventions] is **proposed as amended** with no objections. 



####6.2.6 [ODATA-137](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-137)####

ODATA-137
: "Normalize percent-encoded values in URIs before applying ABNF rules" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **new**. 

Discussion:

* MemberZ states


Mike: 
>I **move** to resolve ODATA-137 as proposed, requiring that URLs be partially decoded.. **Andrew seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-137
: "Normalize percent-encoded values in URIs before applying ABNF rules" [component: OData ABNF Construction Rules] is **proposed** with no objections. 



####6.2.7 [ODATA-133](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-133)####

ODATA-133
: "Attributes defined on odata elements should be in empty namespace" [components: OData ATOM Format, OData CSDL] is **new**. 

Mike: 
>I **move** to accept ODATA-133 to remove the namespace qualification for any attributes we define within elements that we define. **Martin seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-133
: "Attributes defined on odata elements should be in empty namespace" [components: OData ATOM Format, OData CSDL] is **proposed** with no objections. 



####6.2.8 [ODATA-135](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-135)####

ODATA-135
: "Instance Annotations in Atom should use metadata:Annotation element" [component: OData ATOM Format] is **new**. 

Discussion:

* Ram asks if proposal is concrete enough for application by the editors
* Martins confirms that this is the case


Martin: 
>I **move** to accept ODATA-135 as proposed. **Stefan seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-135
: "Instance Annotations in Atom should use metadata:Annotation element" [component: OData ATOM Format] is **proposed** with no objections. 


####6.2.9 [ODATA-136](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-136)####

ODATA-136
: "Correct definition of Edm.Time in [ATOM]" [component: OData ATOM Format] is **new**. 

Discussion:

* Mike states there is another issue open on adding a duration type
* Andrew names that one as ODATA-107


Mike: 
>I **move** resolve ODATA-136 as proposed, giving the editors direction to make the definition of Edm.Time consistent with resolution to ODATA-70. **Andrew seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-136
: "Correct definition of Edm.Time in [ATOM]" [component: OData ATOM Format] is **proposed** with no objections. 


####6.2.10 [ODATA-41](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-41)####

ODATA-41
: "Specify which URL formats are acceptable within $batch, and which to prefer" [component: OData Batch Processing Format] is **new**. 

Discussion:

* Mike points out, that the precedence rules proposed are correct
* Hubert asks when case b and c happen, what is the meaning of the proposal with this regard
* Mike states, that the batch request is allowed to contain requests with different headers, thus may differ in the value of the host header, which he also sees as a feature.
* Mike further explains, that the servers in a federated world are free to answer with direct links to different servers in one answer, which will satisfy the further request along these urls, i.e. a minimum requirement is to only serve out urls the server may handle afterwards in a batch request.
* Martin asks how a changeset may be processed in certain setups/cases
* Mike answers, that the servers are free to answer with distributed transaction urls, if and only if they can handle it afterwards

Hubert: 
>I **move** to accept ODATA-41 as proposed. **Mike seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-41
: "Specify which URL formats are acceptable within $batch, and which to prefer" [component: OData Batch Processing Format] is **proposed** with no objections. 


####6.2.11 [ODATA-52](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-52)####

ODATA-52
: "Section 3.5 Primitive Types list the primitive types, but doesn't define their meaning" [component: OData CSDL] is **new**. 

Ralf: 
>I **move** to resolve ODATA-52 as proposed. **Andrew seconds**.

**No further discussion**. **No objections**. The **motion passes**.

ODATA-52
: "Section 3.5 Primitive Types list the primitive types, but doesn't define their meaning" [component: OData CSDL] is **proposed** with no objections. 


Note:

Time allocated for issue processing is through, thus skip to next item 7

####6.2.12 [ODATA-119](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-119)####

ODATA-119
: "Allow definition of 'simple' types that fix values for facet attributes of primitive types" [component: OData CSDL] is **new**. 

####6.2.13 [ODATA-56](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-56)####

ODATA-56
: "metadata:IsDefaultEntityContainer is not defined" [component: OData CSDL] is **new**. 

####6.2.14 [ODATA-93](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-93)####

ODATA-93
: "3.4: add introductory paragraph" [component: OData JSON Format] is **new**. 

####6.2.15 [ODATA-125](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-125)####

ODATA-125
: "XML schema for Edmx wrapper constructs edmx:Edmx and edmx:DataServices" [component: OData CSDL] is **new**. 

####6.2.16 [ODATA-61](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-61)####

ODATA-61
: "Allow complex properties or components of complex properties as parts of a referential constraint" [component: OData CSDL] is **open**. 

####6.2.17 [ODATA-103](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-103)####

ODATA-103
: "5.4.1 Representing Actions Bound to Multiple Entities: specify treatment of action overloads" [component: OData Protocol] is **new**. 

####6.2.18 [ODATA-130](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-130)####

ODATA-130
: "Describe canonical $metadata and $batch URLs in URL conventions" [component: OData URL Conventions] is **new**. 

####6.2.19 [ODATA-134](https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-134)####

ODATA-134
: "Multiplicity of FunctionImport ReturnType element" [component: OData CSDL] is **new**. 

 
##7 Timeline and next steps##

###7.1 Review of the projected Timeline [[TL_REF][TL_REF]]###

Context:
> Reminder - October 20th, 2012: TC completes end-to-end review of the core specifications and files any remaining issues. Let's discuss this.

Discussion:

*  Mike thinks, that a lot of people have been focused on entering, refactoring, processing which is good, but asks to not add any new issues to be discussed next week, to give people the time to review the documents.
*  Mike thus asks for trading in the otherwise issue-processing-time into document-reviewing-time.
*  Stefan seconds the proposal.
*  John agrees with a check point.  He has trouble even downloading all docs to keep up.
*  Ralf likes the proposal
*  Mike: I propose that, in order to give people time to review the documents before next week, we not resolve any proposals next week that are not on this week's agenda.

All: accept the proposal to freeze the issue processing items for next meeting


##8 Next meeting##

###8.1 Proposed Thursday Oct 18, 2012 0800-0900 PT###

Agreed. 


##10 AOB##

None. 

### Meeting adjourned on 0858 PT.###


# Appendices#
## Timeline Reference [TL_REF] ##
 
Here is a rough draft of a timeline for the OData core specifications:

* 2012-OCT-20
	* TC completes end-to-end review of the core specifications and files any remaining issues
* 2012-NOV-08 - 2012-NOV-09 2nd F2F meeting (Littleton, MA)
	*  Discuss proposals and resolve issues
* Committee Specification Draft 01
* 30-day public review
* Committee Specification Draft 02
* 15-day public review
* Committee Specification
* Candidate OASIS Standard
* 60-day public review
* OASIS Standard

The timeline for the OData extension specifications is TBD.
