<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OData TC meeting #197 Thursday November 30, 2017</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font-family:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}p{margin:0.7ex 2.0em}pre{margin-left:4em;}
p.note{font-size:75%}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}
#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
<!-- # grep -v excluding_those_lines __file__ |shasum -a 512 -->
<!-- sha512_excluding_those_lines='ac817f5d81bde841d70d7d83ca87d664f9d4fdf35893dd2bd1d99fb7adca1b6e6a72df48e1004d09a2bc16f961ce89ac148f9601478fcb33be5d44cff9851a7d' -->
</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OData TC meeting #197 Thursday November 30, 2017</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ralf</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2017-11-30 0800-1000 PST
</pre>
<h2 id="1">1. Roll call</h2>

<h3 id="1.1">1.1 Members present</h3>

<pre>
    George Ericson (Dell)
    Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
    Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
    Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
    Martin Zurmuehl (SAP SE)
    Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
    Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
    Ralf Handl (SAP SE)
    Ramesh Reddy (Red Hat)
    Stefan Hagen (Individual)
    Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=44006">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=44006)</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h2 id="2">2. Approve agenda</h2>
<p>Mike: new issue for vocabularies: ODATA-1134 Add KeyAsSegment annotation term to core vocabulary</p>
<p>Ralf: Agenda approved with these changes</p>

<h2 id="3">3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h2>
<h3 id="3.1">3.1 Minutes from November 16, 2017 TC meeting #196</h3>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/62073/odata-meeting-196_on-20171116-minutes.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/62073/odata-meeting-196_on-20171116-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published.</p>


<h2 id="4">4. Review action items [<a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Link to Action item list</a>]</h2>
<h3 id="4.1">4.1 Action items due</h3>
<h4 id="4.1.1">4.1.1 #0036 Register the OData- headers and preferences with IANA â€“ Update from Mark Biamonte</h4>
<p>Ralf: Documents have been reviewed by Robin Cover</p>
<p>Ralf: They (IANA) want a published spec, so wait for V4.01 to be approved as CS01</p>
<p>Ralf: SchemaVersion header no longer in V4.01 as we switched it to a query option, so it has to be removed from the header registration document</p>

<h2 id="5">5. Committee Note on Repeatable Requests</h2>
<p>Matt: Kindly asks, that the TC publishes this as a Committee Note as soon as possible, and make the content part of the standard later - this requires switching then mode to standards track</p>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/49687/repeatable-requests-wd01-2013-06-25.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/49687/repeatable-requests-wd01-2013-06-25.docx</a></p>
<p>Matt: volunteers to update the document and make it ready for review</p>
<p>Matt: Rationale: want to get it into the open and known</p>
<h3 id="5.1">5.1 Discuss next Steps</h3>
<p>Mike: having a public review might draw more attention</p>
<p>Ralf: Consensus on publishing a Note Draft with public review</p>

<h2 id="6">6. Committee Note on OData to OpenAPI Mapping</h2>
<h3 id="6.1">6.1 Document Walk-Through</h3>
<h4 id="6.1.1">6.1.1 Committee Note on OData to OpenAPI Mapping <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61852/odata-openapi-v1.0-wd02-2017-10-20.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61852/odata-openapi-v1.0-wd02-2017-10-20.docx</a></h4>

<h3 id="6.2">6.2 Next Steps</h3>
<p>Walkthrough ended just before "Components", to be continued next week</p>

<h2 id="7">7. Issues</h2>
<p>Skipped</p>

<h3 id="7.1">7.1 Vocabularies: APPLIED</h3>
<p>Skipped</p>
<h4 id="7.1.1">7.1.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1064" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1064</a> - Add ability to annotate collections to return only count and NextLink</h4>
<p>Skipped</p>

<h3 id="7.2">7.2 Vocabularies: NEW or OPEN</h3>
<p>Skipped</p>
<h4 id="7.2.1">7.2.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1132" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1132</a> - Propagation of NavigationRestrictions</h4>
<p>Skipped</p>
<h4 id="7.2.2">7.2.2 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1124" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1124</a> - Authorization vocabulary: KeyLocation - also allow cookie as value?</h4>
<p>Skipped</p>
<h4 id="7.2.3">7.2.3 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1121" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1121</a> - Extend FilterExpressionRestrictions with "MultiPredicate"</h4>
<p>Skipped</p>
<h4 id="7.2.4">7.2.4 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1067" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1067</a> - Consider ability to define computed default values</h4>
<p>Skipped</p>
<h4 id="7.2.5">7.2.5 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1005" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1005</a> - Make sure we have capabilities for all new 4.01 functionality</h4>
<p>Skipped</p>
<h4 id="7.2.6">7.2.6 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-884" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-884</a> - Add term ErrorCodes to describe possible codes in error messages (public comment c201510e00019)</h4>
<p>Skipped</p>

<h2 id="8">8. Next meetings</h2>
<p>Ralf:</p>
<pre>
Thursday December 07, 2017 during 8-10 am PST (17:00-19:00 CET)
</pre>
<p>Ralf: Topic will be to continue walkthrough where we stopped today in Committee Note on OData to OpenAPI Mapping.</p>

<h2 id="9">9. AOB and wrap up</h2>
<p>None</p>

<p>Meeting adjourned by chair.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
