<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OData TC meeting #155 Thursday Dec 08, 2016</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font-family:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}
#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
<!-- # grep -v excluding_this_line __file__ |shasum -a 512 -->
<!-- sha512_excluding_this_line='a7c1a4262b33876a0b0dc2586a3421e6860a6915742da17fa47facf0dfb7db07f26ab6b81986602770db78ee3fa16efbe04c45d56a39bfb7327f39cccafed652' -->
</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OData TC meeting #155 Thursday Dec 08, 2016</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ralf</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2016-12-08 0700-1000 PT
</pre>
<h2>1. Roll call</h2>

<h3>1.1 Members present</h3>
<pre>
        George Ericson (Dell)
        Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP SE)
        Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Ralf Handl (SAP SE)
        Ramesh Reddy (Red Hat)
        Stefan Hagen (Individual)
        Susam Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=41492">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=41492)</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h2>2. Approve agenda</h2>
<p>Agenda is approved unchanged as published.</p>

<h2>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h2>
<h3>3.1 Minutes from December 01, 2016 TC meeting #154</h3>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/59508/odata-meeting-154_on-20161201-minutes.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/59508/odata-meeting-154_on-20161201-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published.</p>

<h2>4. Review action items [<a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Link to Action item list</a>]</h2>
<h3>4.1 Action items due</h3>
<h4>4.1.1 AI#0036 - "Register the OData- headers and preferences with IANA"</h4>
<p>No news / more next week - Action #0036 ongoing.</p>

<h2>5. V4.01</h2>

<h3>5.1 Document Walkthrough</h3>

<h4>5.1.1 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59557/odata-v4.01-wd01-part1-protocol-2016-12-08.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OData Version 4.01 Part 1: Protocol</a></h4>

<p>All walk through the document</p>

<h4>5.1.2 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59558/odata-v4.01-wd01-part2-url-conventions-2016-12-08.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OData Version 4.01 Part 2: URL Conventions</a></h4>

<p>All walk through the document</p>

<h4>5.1.3 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59559/odata-v4.01-wd01-part3-csdl-2016-12-08-final.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OData Version 4.01 Part 3: CSDL</a></h4>

<p>All walk through the document</p>

<h4>5.1.4 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59552/odata-csdl-xml-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OData CSDL XML Representation Version 4.01</a></h4>

<p>All walk through the document</p>

<h4>5.1.5 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59554/odata-json-format-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OData JSON Format Version 4.01</a></h4>

<p>All walk through the document</p>

<p>Mike: Changed wording: "If present, the value of the reason property MUST be either deleted, if the entity was deleted (destroyed), or changed if the entity was removed from membership in the result either due to change in value such that the entity no longer matches the defining query or because the entity was removed from the collection. "</p>
<p>Ralf: Mark to open an issue regarding "reason":"changed"/"deleted" in PATCH payloads</p>
<p>Ralf: Also add more examples to cover all cases</p>

<h4>5.1.6 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59556/odata-vocabularies-v4.0-wd01-2016-12-08.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OData Vocabularies Version 4.0</a></h4>

<p>All walk through the document</p>


<h3>5.2 Motion</h3>

<p><b>Mike</b> I <b>move</b> to close ODATA-1009, ODATA-1010, and ODATA-1012 as applied. <b>Mark</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: No objections, motion passes, <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1009" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1009</a>, <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1010" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1010</a>, and <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1012" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1012</a> have been closed as applied</p>


<h3>5.3 Request public review for V4.01_CSD01 packages</h3>

<h4>5.3.1 OData Vocabularies V4.0 Working Draft 01 </h4>

<p><b>Stefan</b> I <b>move</b> that the TC approve OData Vocabularies V4.0 Working Draft 01 and all associated artifacts packaged together in <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59565/odata-vocabularies-v4.0-wd01-2016-12-08.zip" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59565/odata-vocabularies-v4.0-wd01-2016-12-08.zip</a> as Committee Specification Draft 01 and designate the Microsoft Word version of the specification as authoritative. I further move that the TC approve submitting the aforementioned Committee Specification Draft 01 for 30 days of public review. <b>Matt</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: No objections, motion passes.</p>

<h4>5.3.2 Request for OData JSON Format V4.01 Working Draft 01</h4>

<p><b>Mark</b> I <b>move</b> move that the TC approve OData JSON Format V4.01 Working Draft 01 and all associated artifacts packaged together in <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59573/odata-json-format-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08-a.zip" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59573/odata-json-format-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08-a.zip</a> as Committee Specification Draft 01 and designate the Microsoft Word version of the specification as authoritative. I further move that the TC approve submitting the aforementioned Committee Specification Draft 01 for 30 days of public review. <b>Martin</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: No objections, motion passes.</p>

<h4>5.3.3 Request for OData V4.01 Working Draft 01</h4>

<p><b>Mike</b> I <b>move</b> that the TC approve OData V4.01 Working Draft 01 and all associated artifacts packaged together in <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59574/odata-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08-b.zip" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59574/odata-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08-b.zip</a> as Committee Specification Draft 01 and designate the Microsoft Word version of the specification as authoritative. I further move that the TC approve submitting the aforementioned Committee Specification Draft 01 for 30 days of public review. <b>Stefan</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: No objections, motion passes.</p>

<h4>5.3.4 Request for OData Common Schema Definition Language (CSDL) XML Representation V4.01 Working Draft 01</h4>

<p><b>Matt</b> I <b>move</b> I move that the TC approve OData Common Schema Definition Language (CSDL) XML Representation V4.01 Working Draft 01 and all associated artifacts packaged together in <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59564/odata-csdl-xml-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08.zip" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/59564/odata-csdl-xml-v4.01-wd01-2016-12-08.zip</a> as Committee Specification Draft 01 and designate the Microsoft Word version of the specification as authoritative. I further move that the TC approve submitting the aforementioned Committee Specification Draft 01 for 30 days of public review. <b>Martin</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: No objections, motion passes.</p>

<h2>6. Next meetings</h2>
<h3>6.1 Next Meeting Thursday December 15, 2016 during 08:00-10:00 am PT</h3> 
<p>Date and time of meeting agreed, topics suggested:</p>
<ul>
<li>OpenAPI document (Mike, Ralf, and Stefan like that)</li>
<li>IANA registration documents (i.e. AI#0036)</li>
</ul>
<p>Stefan: <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=41493" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Event page</a></p>
<h3>6.2 Winter break</h3>
<p>Winter break after that meeting #156 on December 15, 2016 - so next meeting there after will be in 2017?</p>
<p>Suggested is Thursday, 12 January 2016, 08:00am to 10:00am PT (i.e. Thursday, 07 January 2016, 05:00pm to 07:00pm CET)</p>

<h2>7. AOB and wrap up</h2>
<p>No other business.</p>

<p>Meeting adjourned by chair.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>