<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OData TC meeting (informal) Thursday May 05, 2016</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}img,pre,blockquote,table,figure{page-break-inside:avoid}
.footnotes{page-break-before:always}#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OData TC meeting (informal) Thursday May 05, 2016</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ram</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2016-05-05 0800-1000 PDT
</pre>
<h2>1. Roll call</h2>

<h3>1.1 Members present</h3>
<pre>
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
</pre>

<p>Quorum (formally) achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=41461">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=41461)</a>.</p>

<p>Ram: Many from Europe are on vacation. The group thus meets briefly to talk about general topics such as timeline for <b>v4.01 issues</b>, <b>OASIS Open Repository for OData</b>, and <b>ISO standardization</b>.</p>
<p>Susan: Thank you for explaining</p>

<p>Ram: <b>v4.01 issues</b> - The list of issues v4.01 issues on the agenda are the one we currently plan to tackle for v4.01 CSD01 (Committee Specification Draft 01). Please review the list and point out any issues that are missing and which need to be included in CSD01.</p>

<p>Ram: <b>ISO standardization</b> - no word yet on when the approved document would be published. In anticipation of the official announcement, we need to prepare quotes for the press release, etc. Ram will send some information to the TC mailing list.</p>

<p>Ram: <b>OASIS Open Repo for OData</b> - Members are encouraged to obtain any form of internal approvals they may need from their companies (or orgs) to contribute to the OSS project under Apache 2 license.</p>

<p>Ram: Thanks Susan</p>

<p>Ram: We will meet again next week.</p>

<p>Ram: The TC did not approve minutes or make any formal decisions during the meeting today.</p>

<p>Ram: Meeting adjourned.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>