<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
<title>OData TC meeting #115 Thursday Dec 03, 2015</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>OData TC meeting #115 Thursday Dec 03, 2015</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ram</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2015-12-03 0800-1000 PT
</pre>
<h3>1. Roll call</h3>

<h4>1.1 Members present</h4>
<pre>
        Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
        HUbert Heijkers (IBM)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Ralf Handl (SAP SE) 
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Ramesh Reddy (Red Hat)
        Stefan Hagen (Individual)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=39127">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=39125)</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h3>2. Approve agenda</h3>

<p>Agenda approved unchanged as published.</p>

<h3>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h3>

<h4>3.1 Minutes from November 19, 2015 TC meeting #114</h4>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/57014/odata-meeting-114_on-20151119-minutes.html">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/57014/odata-meeting-114_on-20151119-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published</p>

<h3>4. Review action items</h3>
<h4>4.1 Action items due December 03, 2015</h4>
<p>None</p>

<h3>5. JSON Format for CSDL</h3>

<h4>Approve OData JSON Format for CSDL as CSD01 and initiate public review</h4>
<p><b>Susan</b>: I <b>move</b> that the TC approve OData JSON Format for Common Schema Definition Language (CSDL) Version 4.0 Working Draft 01 and all associated artifacts packaged together in <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/57012/odata-json-csdl-v4.0-wd01-2015-11-20-final.zip" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/57012/odata-json-csdl-v4.0-wd01-2015-11-20-final.zip</a> as a Committee Specification Draft 01 and designate the Microsoft Word version of the specification as authoritative.</p>
<p><b>Susan</b>: I further <b>move</b> that the TC approve submitting the aforementioned Committee Specification Draft 01 for 30 days of public review and notifying all  external stakeholders known to the members of the TC. <b>Ramesh</b> seconds.</p>

<p>The motion is approved unanimously.</p>
 
<h3>6. Next Face to Face Meeting</h3>
<h4>Approve next TC F2F meeting</h4>

<p><b>Mike</b>: I <b>move</b> we hold our next Face to Face Meeting in Zurich March 2-3, 2016. <b>Ralf</b> seconds</p>

<p>The motion is approved unanimously.</p>

<h3>7. OData international standardization status</h3>
<p>
ISO/IEC DIS 20802-1: 3720. Information technology -- Open data (OData) protocol -- Part 1: Protocol plus errata 02 <br>
ISO/IEC DIS 20802-2: 3721. Information technology -- Open data (OData) protocol -- Part 2: JSON format version 4.0 plus errata 02 <br>
The Draft International Standard (DIS) ballot to approve the OData v4 as an international standard is on (Nov 2015 through Jan 2016).<br>
The eventual approved international standard would have two parts (OData v4 Core and OData JSON Format v4).<br>
</p>

<h3>8. V4.0 ERRATA03 - Issues for V4.0_ERRATA03 in New or Open state</h3>
<h4>8.1 OData Protocol</h4>
<h5>8.1.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-800" target="_blank">ODATA-800</a> - Media streams section does not reference the AtomPub spec [Open]</h5>

<p><b>Matt</b>: I <b>move</b> we close ODATA-800 as not fixed. <b>Ralf</b> seconds.</p>

<p>Motion approved. ODATA-800 is closed as not fixed.</p>


<h5>8.1.2 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-882" target="_blank">ODATA-882</a> - Mismatch between 11.2.6 Requesting Related Entities and 11.2.7 Requesting Entity References [Open]</h5>


<h4>8.2 OData URL Conventions</h4>

<h5>8.2.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-784" target="_blank">ODATA-784</a> - Need to specify the behaviour of arithmetic operators on Decimal type [Open] [Proposed]</h5>

<p>No news.</p>

<h5>8.2.2 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-785" target="_blank">ODATA-785</a> - Numeric promotion (on overflow) across "number type families" is undesirable. [Open] [Proposed]</h5>

<p>No news.</p>

<h5>8.2.3 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-891" target="_blank">ODATA-891</a> - Misleading reference to "open" in description of $select [Proposed]</h5>

<p>Ram: OData-891 is open</p>

<p><b>Mike</b>: I <b>move</b> we resolve ODATA-891 as proposed. <b>Matt</b> seconds.</p>

<p>ODATA-891 has been resolved. Motion passes.</p>


<h5>8.2.4 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-892" target="_blank">ODATA-892</a> - Clarify dynamic properties support in $filter, $orderby, $expand [Proposed]</h5>

<p>Ram: ODATA-892 is now open</p>

<p><b>Mike</b>: I <b>move</b>b> we resolve ODATA-892 as proposed. <b>Ralf</b> seconds.</p>

<p>ODATA-892 has been resolved. Motion passes unanimously.</p>


<h4>8.3 OData CSDL</h4>

<h5>8.3.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-887" target="_blank">ODATA-887</a> - Should we allow multi-part namespace alias names?</h5>

<p>Ram: ODATA-887 is now open</p>

<p>Ram: Move this from Errata03 to V4.01</p>
<p>Ramesh: I see the XML define it as [4]   NCName   ::=   Name - (Char* ':' Char*)</p>

<h4>8.4 OData JSON Format</h4>

<h5>8.4.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-893" target="_blank">ODATA-893</a> - Is @odata.type required on update of a derived type</h5>

<p>Ram: ODATA-893 is now open</p>

<p><b>Mike</b>: I <b>propose</b> we resolve ODATA-893 by clarifying the protocol section that, as per the format specification, the type must be specified for derived types. <b>Mark</b> seconds.</p>
<p><b>Mike</b>: Further that we call out explicitly our intention that the type (and id) cannot be changed on update. <b>Mark</b> seconds.</p>

<p><b>Ram</b>: Further, we intend to open a separate issue in V4.01 relax this and services to support this capability.</p>

<p>Ram: ODATA-893 has been resolved as proposed above</p>

<h4>8.5 Vocabularies</h4>

<p>Mike: Ram to request a new standards track work product for "Vocabularies" that will contain a small prose document and pointer to the vocabularies as additional artifacts.</p>

<h5>8.5.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-886" target="_blank">ODATA-886</a> - Need a stable reference to latest/current OASIS OData vocabularies  [Proposed]</h5>

<p>Ram: ODATA-886 is now open.</p>


<h5>8.5.2 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-885" target="_blank">ODATA-885</a> - Permissions should apply to more than just properties</h5>

<p>Ram: ODATA-885 is now open.  Proposers to come up with a concrete proposal.</p>

<h3>9. Next meeting</h3>

<h4>9.1 Thursday January 07, 2016 during 8-10am PT?</h4>
<p>Date and time of next meeting agreed</p>

<h3>10. AOB and wrap up</h3>

<p>None.</p>

<p>Meeting adjourned by chair.</p>

</body>
</html>
