<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><meta charset="utf-8"><meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge,chrome=1"><title>odata-meeting-4_on-20120823_minutes</title><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"><style>body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0}body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;word-wrap:break-word}h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}@media print{body{overflow:auto}img,pre,blockquote,table,figure{page-break-inside:avoid}.footnotes{page-break-before:always}#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}@media screen{::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}.inverted{background:#333}.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}</style></head><body class="normal"><div id="wrapper"><h1 id="odataconferencecall4thursday23aug20120800-0900pt">OData Conference Call #4, Thursday, 23 Aug 2012, 0800 - 0900 PT</h1><h2 id="rollcall">1. Roll call</h2><h3 id="memberspresent:">1.1 Members Present:</h3><pre><code>    Andrew Eisenberg (IBM)
    Dale Moberg (Axway Software)
    Diane Jordan (IBM)
    Erik de Voogd (SDL)
    Gerald Krause (SAP AG)
    Gershon Janssen (Individual)
    Giovanni Bartolomeo (Individual)
    Howard Abrams (CA Technologies)
    Jeffrey Turpin (Axway Software)
    John Willson (Individual)
    John Wilmes (Individual)
    Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
    Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
    Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)
    Matthew Borges (SAP AG)
    Michael Pizzo (Microsoft)
    Pablo Castro (Microsoft)
    Patrick Durusau (Individual)
    Ralf Handl (SAP AG)
    Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
    Robert Richards (Mashery)
    Sanjay Patil (SAP AG)
    Shishir Pardikar (Citrix Systems)
    Stan Mitranic (CA Technologies)
    Stefan Drees (Individual)
    Susan Malaika (IBM)
    Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</code></pre><h3 id="onleaveofabsense:">1.2 On Leave of Absense:</h3><pre><code>    Barbara Hartel (SAP AG)
    Colleen Evans (Microsoft)
    Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
</code></pre><p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=33449">normative attendance sheet for this meeting</a>.</p><h2 id="approvalofagenda">2. Approval of Agenda</h2><p>Agenda approved as published.</p><h2 id="approvalofminutesfrompreviousmeetings">3. Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting(s)</h2><h3 id="approvalofminutesof2012-08-16meeting3:">3.1 Approval of <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46701/odata_meeting-3_on-20120816_minutes.html">Minutes of 2012&#8211;08&#8211;16 Meeting#3</a>:</h3><p>Meeting minutes approved with no objections</p><h2 id="reviewofactionitemsaiandprogress">4. Review of <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php">Action Items</a> (AI) and Progress</h2><p>[AILT]: <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php">Action Items</a></p><blockquote><p>Context: The ownership of action items is noted <code>[owner: Given Family]</code> and as indicated by [AIL-Tool][AILT] retrieved <code>2012-08-22 07:35 +02:00</code>.</p></blockquote><dl><dt>AI#0003</dt><dd>&#8220;Come up with examples / usecases (and proposals) for open types and document annotation for JSON extensions document&#8221; [owner: Susan Malaika] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0004</dt><dd>&#8220;Come up with estimate for first milestone for data aggregation extension&#8221; [owner: Ralf Handl] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0005</dt><dd>&#8220;Come up with a first milestine for the temporal extension&#8221; [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0006</dt><dd>&#8220;Come up with estimate for first milestone for XML data extension&#8221; [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0007</dt><dd>&#8220;Come up with estimate for first milestone for JSON data extension&#8221; [owner: Susan Malaika] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0008</dt><dd>&#8220;Recording of TC meetings&#8221; [owner: Hubert Hubert] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0009</dt><dd>&#8220;Best practices document for issue handling&#8221; [owner: Ram Jeyaraman] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0010</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData protocol specification&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0011</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData CSDL specification&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0012</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData OData ABNF Construction Rules specification&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0013</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData URL Conventions&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0014</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Batch Processing Format&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0015</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Atom Format&#8221; [owner: Martin Zurmuehl] is <strong>Ongoing</strong> (Closed by owner in AIL-Tool)</dd><dt>AI#0016</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData JSON Format&#8221; [owner: Ralf Handl] is <strong>Ongoing</strong> (Closed by owner in AIL-Tool)</dd><dt>AI#0017</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for Data Aggregation&#8221; [owner: Ralf Handl] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0018</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for Temporal Data&#8221; [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0019</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for XML Data&#8221; [owner: Andrew Eisenberg] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0020</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Extension for JSON Data&#8221; [owner: Susan Malaika] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd><dt>AI#0021</dt><dd>&#8220;Chairs to discuss with and provide tools to editors to help with specification versioning&#8221; [owner: Ram Jeyaraman] is <strong>Ongoing</strong></dd></dl><h3 id="actionitemsdueby2012-10-23endofday">4.1 Action items due by 2012&#8211;10&#8211;23 (end of day)</h3><h4 id="ai0009">4.1.1 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3466">AI#0009</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0009</dt><dd>&#8220;Best practices document for issue handling&#8221; [owner: Ram Jeyaraman] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><p>Document: <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46752/Best%20Practices%20for%20Issue%20Handling%20v6.docx">Best Practices for Issues</a> (contains description of how to handle issues including how to represent the Proposed state) [Thanks to Ralf and Mike]</p><p>Michael: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> that issues ready to be reviewed by the TC and closed should have &#8220;[Completed]&#8221; (without the quotes) at the start of the comment field. (<strong>Ralf seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h3 id="actionitemsnotdueby2012-10-23butmaybereadyforclosure">4.2 Action items NOT due by 2012&#8211;10&#8211;23 but MAY be ready for closure</h3><h4 id="ai0011">4.2.1 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3476">AI#0011</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0011</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData CSDL specification&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><h4 id="ai0015">4.2.2 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3480">AI#0015</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0015</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Atom Format&#8221; [owner: Martin Zurmuehl] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><h4 id="ai0016">4.2.3 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3481">AI#0016</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0016</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData JSON Format&#8221; [owner: Ralf Handl] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><h4 id="ai0010">4.2.4 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3475">AI#0010</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0010</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData protocol specification&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><h4 id="ai0014">4.2.5 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3479">AI#0014</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0014</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData Batch Processing Format&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><h4 id="ai0013">4.2.6 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3478">AI#0013</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0013</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData URL Conventions&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><h4 id="ai0012">4.2.7 <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3477">AI#0012</a></h4><dl><dt>AI#0012</dt><dd>&#8220;Prepare Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of OData OData ABNF Construction Rules specification&#8221; [owner: Michael Pizzo] is <strong>Closed</strong> as <strong>completed</strong> with no objections.</dd></dl><h3 id="specialsectiononwd01approvals">4.3 Special section on WD01 Approvals</h3><blockquote><p>NOTE: For completed actions items pertaining to producing Working Draft 01 (WD01) version of the specifications, in addition to closing those actions, we will also formally (via a motion) approve the WD01 productions resulting from those actions as baseline documents.</p></blockquote><h4 id="odatacsdlversion1.0workingdraft01">4.3.1 OData CSDL Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</h4><p>Michael: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to close the action item AI#0011 and approve the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46707/odata-csdl-v1.0-wd01-2012-08-17-RH.doc">delivered revision of OData CSDL Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</a> specification as baseline document. (<strong>Stefan seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h4 id="odataatomformatversion1.0workingdraft01">4.3.2 OData ATOM Format Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</h4><p>Martin: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to close the action item AI#0015 and approve the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46705/odata-atom-format-v1.0-wd01-2012-08-17-MZ.doc">delivered revision of OData ATOM Format Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</a> specification as baseline document. (<strong>Stefan seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h4 id="odatajsonformatversion1.0workingdraft01">4.3.3 OData JSON Format Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</h4><p>Ralf: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to close the action item AI#0016 and approve the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46641/odata-json-format-v1.0-wd01-2012-08-08-RHA.doc">delivered revision of OData JSON Format Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</a> specification as baseline document. (<strong>Martin seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h4 id="odataprotocolversion1.0workingdraft01">4.3.4 OData Protocol Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</h4><p>Michael: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to close the action item AI#0010 and approve the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46749/odata-v1.0-wd01-2012-8-22.doc">delivered revision of OData Protocol Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</a> specification as baseline document. (<strong>Martin seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h4 id="odatabatchprocessingversion1.0workingdraft01">4.3.5 OData Batch Processing Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</h4><p>Michael: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to close the action item AI#0014 and approve the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46750/odata-batch-processing-v1.0-wd01.doc">delivered revision of OData Batch Processing Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</a> specification as baseline document. (<strong>Ralf seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h4 id="odataurlconventionsversion1.0workingdraft01">4.3.6 OData URL Conventions Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</h4><p>Michael: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to close the action item AI#0013 and approve the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46751/odata-url-conventions-v1.0-wd01-2012-08-22.doc">delivered revision of OData URL Conventions Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</a> specification as baseline document. (<strong>Stefan seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h4 id="odataabnfconstructionrulesversion1.0workingdraft01">4.3.7 OData ABNF Construction Rules Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</h4><p>Ralf: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to close the action item AI#0012 and approve the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/46748/odata-abnf-current.abnf">delivered revision of OData ABNF Construction Rules Version 1.0 Working Draft 01</a> specification (as of today) as baseline document. (<strong>Martin seconds</strong>).</p></blockquote><p>Discussion of motion:</p><ul><li>Ram asks, if the text format of the ABNF grammar file qualifies as a WD01 document and suggests to put an action on him to further investigate this with the TC administraion.</li><li>Ralf explains, that the grammar is in plain text format, since it is a valid grammar made to be parsed by parsers, i.e. it targets machine readability (eg. as validator definition input)</li><li>Michael adds that it is like with XSD-files in other contexts (CSDL) with the difference, that here the ABNF is the <strong>normative base</strong> for the OData protocol, whilst the XSD file for the CSDL is non-normative.</li></ul><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><p>New Action <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_item.php?action_item_id=3512">AI#0022</a>:</p><dl><dt>AI#0022</dt><dd>&#8220;Investigate with the TC administraion how to manage the isolated ABNF Grammar artifact in the standardizing process&#8221; [owner: Ram Jeyaraman]</dd></dl><h2 id="pressreleaseprtoannounceoasisodatatc">5. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/email/archives/201208/msg00131.html">Press Release</a> (PR) to announce OASIS OData TC</h2><h3 id="note:">5.1. Note:</h3><p>Last date for providing quotes (by OASIS Sponsor-level members) is Friday Aug 24. The PR is scheduled for release on 2012-Aug&#8211;27.</p><h2 id="additionalfolderintcdocumentrepositoryforproposalsetc">6. Additional folder (in TC document repository) for proposals, etc</h2><h3 id="requirementsforadditionalfolders">6.1 Requirements for additional folders</h3><p>Let’s discuss if we need an additional folder for uploading proposals, etc. and decide on the name of such a folder.</p><p>Discussion:</p><ul><li>Stefan motivates the need for a folder different from Contributions, where secondary documents like reviews and proposals may reside and suggests &#8220;Reviews&#8221;, &#8220;Proposals&#8221; or the like.</li><li>Ralf proposes to name the folder Proposals</li><li>Andrew suggests, that the normative text of a proposal or longer comment MAY also go into the Proposals folder and only a summary and corresponding link inside the JIRA Issue.</li></ul><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>.</p><p>Ram will rename the folder <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/documents.php?folder_id=2681">&#8220;Temporary files&#8221;</a> to &#8220;Proposals&#8221; (without the quotes).</p><h2 id="nextfacetofacemeeting">7. Next face to face meeting</h2><h3 id="discussionofresultsfromelectronicballot">7.1 Discussion of results from <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/ballot.php?id=2278">Electronic ballot</a></h3><blockquote><p>Context: The completed <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/ballot.php?id=2278">e-ballot</a> on possible dates for the next F2F</p></blockquote><p>Discussion:</p><ul><li>Ram reports result: <ul><li>October 15&#8211;19, 2012 ok for 10 persons</li><li>November 5&#8211;9, 2012 ok for 20 persons (including the 10 persons voting for the October date)</li></ul></li></ul><p>Ram suggests the week November 5&#8211;9, 2012</p><p><strong>No objections</strong>. Agreed.</p><p>Further discussion:</p><ul><li>Andrew would prefer that the meeting occur later in the week of November 5&#8211;9, 2012.</li><li>Michael suggests to plan for 3 days instead of only 2 days to account for the tentative volume of work.</li></ul><h3 id="hostfortheupcomingfacetofacemeeting">7.2 Host for the upcoming face to face meeting</h3><p>Any volunteers?</p><p>Discussion:</p><ul><li>Mark asks for requirements for F2F hosting</li><li>Ram assumes requirements are only: <ul><li>a room for at most 20 members (since not all voting members will be able to participate locally)</li><li>including a telephone line for hooking the conference system</li><li>and of course an internet connection (for the chat).</li></ul></li></ul><p>Mark is considering hosting.</p><p>Ram suggests to all, that until next meeting there will be definitve a hosting volunteer, so that planning may be progressed further.</p><h3 id="venueoftheupcomingfacetofacemeeting">7.3 Venue of the upcoming face to face meeting</h3><p>Skipped due to time and postponed for next meeting</p><h2 id="reviewofissueslistilandprogress">8. Review of <a href="https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&amp;mode=hide&amp;pid=10103&amp;sorter/field=issuekey&amp;sorter/order=ASC">Issues List</a> (IL) and Progress</h2><dl><dt>ODATA&#8211;1</dt><dd>&#8220;ABNF rule for GUID&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;2</dt><dd>&#8220;Rules for error message inconsistent to Atom document&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;3</dt><dd>&#8220;Use CQL standard for query instead of odata-specific filter query protocol&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;4</dt><dd>&#8220;Allow DefaultValue facet for FunctionImport Parameter&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;5</dt><dd>&#8220;Allow Collection(ComplexType) and Collection(PrimitiveType) for Type attribute of ValueTerm&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;6</dt><dd>&#8220;Use Content-Type: application/json in responses to requests with MaxDataServiceVersion: 2.0&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;7</dt><dd>&#8220;Minor editorial changes to contribution during import into OASIS template&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;8</dt><dd>&#8220;Referenced RFC4646 (has inconsistency in entry) and should be replaced by RFC5646, since the latter obsoleted the former since September 2009&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;9</dt><dd>&#8220;allow expressions in the $select query option&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;10</dt><dd>&#8220;operator that returns the content of a Stream as either a String or Binary value&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;11</dt><dd>&#8220;date/time values without explicit time zones need further investigation&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;12</dt><dd>&#8220;create a data type for property names&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;13</dt><dd>&#8220;A function that returns the current date and time is needed&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;14</dt><dd>&#8220;add Edm.Date to the OData primitive data types&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;15</dt><dd>&#8220;precision for functions that have Edm.DateTime or Edm.DateTimeOffset parameters&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;16</dt><dd>&#8220;allow functions to apply to entity sets of any entity type&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;17</dt><dd>&#8220;Define which DataServiceVersion this specification defines: 3.0 or 4.0.&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;18</dt><dd>&#8220;There are syntax errors in the core OData grammar&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;19</dt><dd>&#8220;New / alternative XML namespaces with OASIS naming convention&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;20</dt><dd>&#8220;Feedback to document revision&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;21</dt><dd>&#8220;Feedback to document revision&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;22</dt><dd>&#8220;Issues with Prefer header&#8221;</dd><dt>ODATA&#8211;23</dt><dd>&#8220;Remove &#8216;MERGE&#8217;, use &#8216;PATCH&#8217; instead&#8221;</dd><dt>OData&#8211;24</dt><dd>&#8220;Simplify how Relationships are expressed in CSDL&#8221;</dd><dt>OData&#8211;25</dt><dd>&#8220;Support Obtaining Changes (Deltas) from a result.&#8221;</dd></dl><h3 id="issuesinproposedstate">8.1 Issues in Proposed state</h3><h4 id="odata-22">8.1.1 <a href="https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-22">ODATA&#8211;22</a></h4><dl><dt>ODATA&#8211;22</dt><dd>&#8220;Issues with Prefer header&#8221; [component: OData Protocol] is <strong>Accepted</strong>.</dd></dl><p>Michael: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to accept the proposal for ODATA&#8211;22 as proposed. <strong>Stefan seconds</strong>.</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h4 id="odata-23">8.1.2 <a href="https://tools.oasis-open.org/issues/browse/ODATA-23">ODATA&#8211;23</a></h4><dl><dt>ODATA&#8211;23</dt><dd>&#8220;Remove &#8216;MERGE&#8217;, use &#8216;PATCH&#8217; instead&#8221; [component: OData Protocol] is <strong>Accepted</strong>.</dd></dl><p>Michael: </p><blockquote><p>I <strong>move</strong> to accept the proposal for ODATA&#8211;23 as proposed. <strong>Martin seconds</strong>.</p></blockquote><p><strong>No further discussion</strong>. <strong>No objections</strong>. The <strong>motion passes</strong>.</p><h3 id="issuesripeforresolution">8.2 Issues ripe for resolution?</h3><p>Skipped due to time and postponed to next meeting.</p><h2 id="timelineandnextsteps">9. Timeline and next steps</h2><p>Ram reminds everyone to not lose the tentative timeline out of sight.</p><h2 id="nextmeeting">10. Next meeting</h2><h3 id="proposedthursdayaug3020120800-0900pt">10.1 Proposed Thursday Aug 30, 2012 0800&#8211;0900 PT</h3><p>Agreed. </p><h2 id="aob">11. AOB</h2><p>None. </p><h3 id="meetingadjournedon0900pt.">Meeting adjourned on 0900 PT.</h3><h1 id="appendices">Appendices</h1><h2 id="tl_ref">Timeline Reference</h2><p>Timeline (based on the F2F discussions and information we currently have)</p><ul><li>Aug 31 <ul><li>All the core specs (seven in total) imported to OASIS specification template.</li><li>All known issues on core specs have been filed</li></ul></li><li>Sept 15 <ul><li>Based on the outstanding issues, the TC will determine a reasonable timeline for the core specs.</li></ul></li></ul></div></body></html>