<!DOCTYPE html>  
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge,chrome=1">
  <title>odata-meeting-68_on-20140313-minutes</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font-family:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}img,pre,blockquote,table,figure{page-break-inside:avoid}
.footnotes{page-break-before:always}#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}

</style>

</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
      <h1 id="odatameeting68thursday13mar20140800-0900pdt">OData meeting #68, Thursday, 13 Mar 2014, 0800 - 0900 PDT</h1>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: For explanations of conventions and other formal aspects common to OData TC meeting minutes which are used in this document please cf. &#8220;<a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48109/formal-aspects-meeting-minutes-v1.html">Formal Aspects of Meeting Minutes</a>&#8221;.</p>

<p>Meeting chaired by Ram Jeyaraman</p>

<h2 id="rollcall">1 Roll call</h2>

<h3 id="memberspresent:">1.1 Members Present:</h3>

<pre><code>    Diane Downie (Citrix Systems)
    Gerald Krause (SAP AG)
    Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
    John Willson (Individual)
    Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
    Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)
    Matthew Borges (SAP AG) a.k.a. Matt
    Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
    Patrick Durusau (Individual)
    Ralf Handl (SAP AG)
    Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
    Stefan Drees (Individual)
    Susan Malaika (IBM)
    Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</code></pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=36532">normative attendance sheet for this meeting</a>.</p>

<h2 id="approvalofagenda">2 Approval of Agenda</h2>

<p>Approved.</p>

<h2 id="approvalofminutesfrompreviousmeetings">3 Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting(s)</h2>

<h3 id="approvalofminutesof2014-02-27meeting67">3.1 Approval of <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/52414/odata-meeting-67_on-20140227-minutes.html">Minutes of 2014&#8211;02&#8211;27 Meeting#67</a></h3>

<p><strong>Meeting minutes approved as published with no objections</strong>.</p>

<h2 id="aih">4 Review of <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php">Action Items</a> (AI) and Progress</h2>

<p>Context:</p>

<blockquote>
<p>See the &#8220;<a href="#ai_ref">List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting</a>&#8221; section in the appendix.</p>
</blockquote>

<h3 id="actionitemsdueby2014-03-13endofday">4.1 Action items due by 2014&#8211;03&#8211;13 (end of day)</h3>

<p>None.</p>

<h3 id="actionitemsnotdueby2014-03-13endofdaybutmaybereadyforclosure">4.2 Action items NOT due by 2014&#8211;03&#8211;13 (end of day) but MAY be ready for closure</h3>

<p>None.</p>

<h2 id="odatacoretimelineandnextsteps">5 OData Core timeline and next steps</h2>

<h3 id="odataopendataprotocolv4andodatajsonformatv4specifications">5.1 OData (Open Data Protocol) v4 and OData JSON Format v4 specifications</h3>

<p>Both have been approved as an OASIS Standard! Done.</p>

<h3 id="oasispressreleaseplannedonmarch13">5.2 OASIS Press release (planned on March 13)</h3>

<h4 id="requestformemberquotesbymarch11">5.2.1 Request for member quotes (by March 11)</h4>

<p>(Cf. <a href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata/201402/msg00020.html">Request for member quotes</a>)</p>

<p>Discussion:</p>

<ul>
<li>All discuss how to proceed esp. finishing the statements for publication and the optimal point in time.</li>
<li>Mike presents the plan for publication of a blog entry on odata.org</li>
<li>All agree on the following plan for the OData v4 public relation activities on March 17, to ensure that all the news lands on the same day so the press can get a full picture:

<ul>
<li>By 0800 PDT: OASIS Press Release posted</li>
<li>Between 0800 and 1000 PDT: All the member blogs (pointing to OASIS PR and cross linking) have been posted</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Ram will send a mail to the tc members to further coordinate (<strong>Update</strong>: The <a href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata/201403/msg00064.html">mail</a> has been sent to the TC list)</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="internationalstandardization">5.3 International standardization</h3>

<h4 id="submittaltoisoiecjtc1forinternationalstandardization">5.3.1 Submittal to ISO/IEC JTC 1 for international standardization</h4>

<p>Discussion:</p>

<ul>
<li>All discuss consequences esp. possible slow down or disturbance effects between a submission process and further progression of the OASIS stadnard up to v4.1 or v5.0</li>
<li>Ram summarizes, that there seems to be consensus in the TC to first produce an errata document and then submit as international standard</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="odataextensionfordataaggregation">6 OData Extension for Data Aggregation</h2>

<h3 id="committeespecificationapproved">6.1 Committee Specification approved</h3>

<p>(Cf. <a href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata/201403/msg00053.html">Approval</a>).</p>

<h3 id="nextsteps">6.2 Next steps</h3>

<p>Discussion:</p>

<ul>
<li>Ram kindly reminds everyone that now is the time to collect statements of use, to be able to advance the workproduct even further</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="odatav4maintenanceerratafornon-substantivechanges">7 OData v4 maintenance (errata for non-substantive changes)</h2>

<p>Discussion</p>

<ul>
<li>Mike expects a constant tickle of errata, but assumes that the next weeks there is still high potential for many (hopefully minor errata) on the document level or induced by the implementation phases</li>
<li>Mike continues to suggest to come up with a concrete plan in the next meeting or the one following that</li>
<li>Mike suggests to spend the two weeks until next meeting to ensure we have no blocker to submit as international standard and thus proposes to reserve 2 hours for the next meeting to be able to discuss that sufficiently if it arises</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="nextmeeting">8 Next meeting</h2>

<p>All agree, that next meeting will be on Mar 27, 0800&#8211;1000 PDT</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong> (<em>from the secretary</em>):</p>

<blockquote>
<p><em>Please take into account, that as of Sunday, 09 March, some countries shifted to Daylight Savings Time (DST). Clocks in the US and Canada have been adjusted forward 1 hr at 2:00 a.m. Other countries with daylight saving shifts will follow later, ie. in Europe the shift will take place at 2014&#8211;03&#8211;30 between midnight and 04:00 local time depending on the country. So please translate the time for the <strong>coordinated PR schedule</strong> and the upcoming next meeting on March, 27 accordingly. Thanks.</em></p>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="aob">9 AOB</h2>

<p>Discussion:</p>

<ul>
<li>Mike suggests that the TC should conduct a face to face meeting</li>
<li>Hubert may participate, but depends though on time slot and location</li>
<li>Mike suggests end of April or even early May</li>
<li>All need to also agree on a location</li>
<li>Stefan could join on May and if it is in Europe</li>
<li>Mike suggests that all check their calendars and so we can tentatively decide during next meeting.</li>
<li>Mike and Stefan would prefer <strong>May 12</strong> and <strong>not</strong> April 21 (<em>Note: Easter holidays between April 18&#8211;21</em>)</li>
<li>Ram will prepare before next meeting</li>
<li>Ram suggests to further discuss by email</li>
</ul>

<p>No other business</p>

<p>[Meeting adjourned at 0843 PDT.</p>

<h2 id="ai_ref">List of Open Action Items Before the Meeting</h2>

<p><strong>Retrieval time stamp</strong>: <code>2014-03-13 14:14 +01:00</code>.</p>

<p>None.</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: The actual action item processing is documented in section <a href="#aih">4</a> and subsections thereof.</p>

<h2 id="ip_ref">Index of Issues Processed During the Meeting</h2>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: The below index has two main parts: First come the public comments (if any), second the JIRA issues. Each list of issues is sorted by ascending issue number. Noted are the ID, the summary and the reference to the relevant subsection where the issue progression has been documented:</p>

<p>Public Comments:</p>

<p>None.</p>

<p>JIRA Issues:</p>

<p>None.</p>

<h2 id="tl_ref">Timeline Reference</h2>

<p><strong>Note</strong>: Please cf. the current revision of the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/50823/TC%20Timeline%206.htm">TC timeline</a>.</p>
    </div>
</body>
</html>