<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OData TC meeting #144 Thursday Sep 15, 2016</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}img,pre,blockquote,table,figure{page-break-inside:avoid}
.footnotes{page-break-before:always}#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OData TC meeting #144 Thursday Sep 15, 2016</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ralf</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2016-09-15 0600-1000 PDT
</pre>
<h2>1. Roll call</h2>

<h3>1.1 Members present</h3>
<pre>
        Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP SE)
        Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Ralf Handl (SAP SE)
        Ramesh Reddy (Red Hat)
        Stefan Hagen (Individual)
        Susam Malaika (IBM)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=41480">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=41480)</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h2>2. Approve agenda</h2>

<p>New agenda item: Vocabularies work product (planned after doc walkthru, before issues)</p>
<p>Agenda approved with above addition</p>
<p>Update: Skipped and shifted to next meeting, as document walkthrough of first two documents filled meeting slot.</p>


<h2>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h2>

<h3>3.1 Minutes from September 08, 2016 TC meeting #143</h3>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/58878/odata-meeting-143_on-20160908-minutes.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/58878/odata-meeting-143_on-20160908-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published.</p>


<h2>4. Review action items</h2>

<h3>4.1 Action items due July 31, 2016</h3>

<h4>4.1.1 AI#0036 - "Register the OData- headers and preferences with IANA"</h4>
<p>Mark: Started to work on registering the OData headers with IANA Action Item 0036 - Robin Cover from OASIS can help with the process</p>
<p>Stefan: Offered support working on this and will keep Mark on copy, so he can further steer this.</p>
<p>Action #0036 remains open.</p>


<h2>5. V4.01 - Document Walk-Through</h2>
<h3>5.1 OData Version 4.01 Part 1: Protocol</h3>
<p>All go over the changes of "OData Version 4.01 Part 1: Protocol" - document is live edited.</p>
<h3>5.2 OData Version 4.01 Part 2: URL Conventions</h3>
<p>All go over the changes of "OData Version 4.01 Part 2: URL Conventions" - document is live edited.</p>


<h2>6. Next meetings</h2>

<h3>6.1 Next Meeting Thursday September 22, 2016 during 6-10am PDT</h3>
<p>Mark not able to attend next week due to a conference, Matt also not able to attend</p>
<p>Mike, Ralf and Stefan favor 6am PDT and a longer meeting, scheduled topics are walking through CSDL and JSON documents.</p> 
<p>Agreed</p>
<p>Stefan on the road week after next</p>

<h2>7. AOB and wrap up</h2>
<p>No other business.</p>

<p>Meeting adjourned by chair.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>