<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OData TC meeting #133 Thursday Jun 09, 2016</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}img,pre,blockquote,table,figure{page-break-inside:avoid}
.footnotes{page-break-before:always}#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OData TC meeting #133 Thursday Jun 09, 2016</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ram</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2016-06-09 0800-1000 PDT
</pre>
<h2>1. Roll call</h2>

<h3>1.1 Members present</h3>
<pre>
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP SE)
        Ralf Handl (SAP SE)
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Ramesh Reddy (Red Hat)
        Stefan Hagen (Individual)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=41466">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=41466)</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h2>2. Approve agenda</h2>

<p>Agenda approved unchanged as published.</p>

<h2>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h2>

<h3>3.1 Minutes from June 02, 2016 TC meeting (informal)</h3>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/58307/odata-meeting-132_on-20160602-minutes.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/58307/odata-meeting-132_on-20160602-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published.</p>


<h2>4. Review action items</h2>

<h3>4.1 Action items due May 22, 2016</h3>

<h4>4.1.1 AI#0036 - "Register the OData- headers and preferences with IANA"</h4>
<p>Ram: Need to make progress - Action #0036 remains open</p>

<h4>4.1.2 Post-Action status for creation of public repositories</h4>
<p>Ram: About open repos, the TC confirms that it is fine to use lower case GitHub names. No technical issues with choice of lower case names.</p>
<p><b>Update after meeting</b>: Requests have been filed as documented in:</p>
<ol>
<li><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/email/archives/201606/msg00036.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/email/archives/201606/msg00036.html</a> for <em>odata-openapi</em> and</li>
<li><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/email/archives/201606/msg00037.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/email/archives/201606/msg00037.html</a> for <em>odata-vocabularies</em>.</li>
</ol>


<h2>5. V4.01 Issues in New or Open state</h2>
<h3>5.1 Annotations</h3>

<h4><a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-516" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-516</a> - Add super type Edm.AnyPath for Edm.PropertyPath, Edm.NavigationPropertyPath, and Edm.AnnotationPath</h4>

<p><b>Ralf</b>: I <b>move</b> to resolve ODATA-516 as proposed. <b>Hubert</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ram: No objections, motion passes</p>

<h4><a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-631" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-631</a> - Allow expressing that a term can be applied any collection and is not restricted to entity sets</h4>

<p><b>Ralf</b>: I <b>move</b> to resolve ODATA-631 as proposed. <b>Hubert</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ram: No objections, motion passes</p>


<h4><a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-545" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-545</a> - Allow applying Capability terms CountRestrictions, TopSupported, SkipSupported etc. to all resources returning collections</h4>

<p>Ralf: </p>
<pre>
&lt;Term Name="TopSupported" Type="Core.Tag" DefaultValue="true" AppliesTo="EntitySet">
  &lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Supports $top"/>
&lt;/Term>

&lt;Term Name="TopSupported" Type="Core.Tag" DefaultValue="true" AppliesTo="EntitySet Collection">
  &lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Supports $top"/>
&lt;/Term>


&lt;Term Name="TopSupported" Type="Core.Tag" DefaultValue="true" AppliesTo="Collection">
  &lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Supports $top"/>
&lt;/Term>

http://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/odata/v4.0/os/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml
</pre>

<p>Ralf: General question: would the V4.01 version of the Capabilities vocabulary have the namespace suffix .V1?</p>
<p>Ralf: Would it use &lt;Edmx Version="4.01"> ?</p>
<pre>
    &lt;edmx:Edmx xmlns:edmx="http://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/ns/edmx" Version="4.0">
</pre>
<p>Ralf: Consider how/whether to "version" the XML namespaces for edmx and edm
<p>Ralf: http://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/ns/edmx redirects to a namespace document that talks about V4.0
<p>Ralf: Park ODATA-545 until <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-948" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-948</a> resolved.
<p>Ram: This issue needs further deliberation and clarity on version handling.</p>


<h4><a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-571" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-571</a> - Add annotation for properties that are (not) part of the default selection if no $select is specified</h4>

<p>Ralf: Add Core term</p>
<pre>
    &lt;Term Name="DefaultSelection" Type="Collection(Edm.PropertyPath)" AppliesTo="EntitySet" />
</pre>
<p>Ralf: Tendency to close this issue without action as it adds little value</p>
<p>Ralf: Clients caring about the selection can tailor the response with $select to their data needs</p>
<p>Ram: we will come back to this issue at the next meeting.</p>

<h3>7. Next meeting</h3>

<h4>7.1 Next Meeting Thursday June 16, 2016 0800-1000 PDT</h4>
<p>Agreed</p>

<h4>7.2 Meeting Thursday June 23, 2016 0600-1000 PDT</h4>
<p>(Scribe): Please all plan for a longer meeting from 6am-10am PT on June 23rd as noted in minutes of previous meeting.</p>

<h3>8. AOB and wrap up</h3>

<p>Ram has filed the TC admin requests to publish the OData v4 Errata 3 and OData JSON Format v4 Errata 4 docs as Approved Errata
</p>

<p>Meeting adjourned by chair.</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>