<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
<title>OData TC meeting #81 Thursday Sep 18, 2014</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>OData TC meeting #81 Thursday Sep 18, 2014</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ram</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2014-09-18 0800-0901 PDT
</pre>
<h3>1. Roll call</h3>
<h4>1.1 Members present</h4>

<pre>
        Gerald Krause (SAP AG)
        Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
        Jason Fam (IBM)
        John Willson (Individual)
        Ken Baclawski (Northeastern University)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP AG)
        Matthew Borges (SAP AG) a.k.a. Matt 
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Ralf Handl (SAP AG)
        Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
        Stefan Drees (Individual)
        Susan Malaika (IBM)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=36559">normative attendance sheet for this meeting</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h3>2. Approve agenda</h3>
<p>Agenda approved as published. </p>

<h3>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h3>

<h4>3.1 Minutes from September 04, 2014 TC meeting: </h4>
Meeting minutes from <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/54078/odata-meeting-80_on-20140904-minutes.html">from September 04, 2014 TC meeting#80</a>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published</p>

<h3>4. Review action items</h3>
URL=<a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php">Action item list at https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php</a>

<h4>4.1 Action items due by September 18, 2014</h4>
<p>None</p>

<h3>5. Errata publication and next steps for international standardization</h3>
<h4>5.1 Discussion on current status of those items</h4>
<p>
Ram mentions that the errata publication is expected soon. The tickets have been submitted.<br>
Following that, the special majority ballot would start to approve submitting OData v4 for international standardization.
</p>

<h3>6. Adoption of OData</h3>
<h4>6.1 How do we seed broader adoption of OData particularly amongst OSS software? Let's continue the discussion on Node.js and Vert.x</h4>
<p>All: Some ideas for promoting use of OData being discussed. Go to the grassroots. Do interoperability testing. Write blogs.</p>

<h3>7. OData v4.1, Data Aggregation, Security</h3>
<h4>7.1 Let's discuss our plans for advancing those documents and next steps</h4>
<p>All: OData v4.1: We will continue to file JIRA issues and at some point address them and produce v4.1</p>

<p>All: There is interest in putting together a spec on JSON Format for Metadata<br>
Matt, Stefan state interest in editing</p>

<p>Ram: We need three statements of use for Data Aggregation</p>

<p>John: We need to make some more changes to security guidelines.</p>

<p>All discuss compression as OData "system variable" $compress and the like (discussion initiated by John)</p> 

<p>Ralf: notes "Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate" header as typical transport level compression in HTTP context</p>

<p>Acting chair: Ralf</p>
 
<p>Ralf: <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-262">https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-262</a> is on CSRF protection</p>

<p>Mike: Proposes to discuss different options for providing a JSON format for $metadata</p>
<p>All agree</p>

<p>Mike: Also proposes that TC members give an update on open source or other activities that they are involved in and that connect to OData</p>

<h3>8. Next meeting</h3>

<h4>Thursday Oct 02, 2014 8-10am PT?</h4>

 
<h3>9. AOB</h3>
 
<p>None.</p>

<h3>Meeting adjourned at 09:01 PDT</h3>

</body>
</html>


