<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
<title>OData TC meeting #103 Thursday Sep 03, 2015</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>OData TC meeting #103 Thursday Sep 03, 2015</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ralf</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2015-09-03 0800-1000 PDT
</pre>
<h3>1. Roll call</h3>

<h4>1.1 Members present</h4>
<pre>
        Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
        Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
        Martin Zurmuehl (SAP SE) 
        Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
        Michael Pizzo (Microsoft) a.k.a. Mike
        Ralf Handl (SAP SE) 
        Stefan Hagen (Individual)
        Ted Jones (Red Hat)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=39114">normative attendance sheet for this meeting</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h3>2. Approve agenda</h3>
<p>Agenda approved as published. </p>

<h3>3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h3>

<h4>3.1 Minutes from July 16, 2015 TC meeting #102: </h4>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/56122/odata-meeting-102_on-20150716-minutes.html">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/56122/odata-meeting-102_on-20150716-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published</p>

<h3>4. Review action items</h3>
<h4>4.1 Action items due September 03, 2015</h4>
<p>None</p>

<h3>5. Process Issues</h3>

<<p>Skipped</p>

<h3>6. Planning of next steps</h3>


<h4>6.1 Data Aggregation CSD03 public review</h4>

<h5>6.1.1 Started on 28 August 2015 00:00 UTC</h5>

<h5>6.1.2 Ends on 11 September 2015 23:59 UTC</h5>

<h5>6.1.3 No comments so far on mailing list https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/odata-comment/</h5>

<h5>6.1.4 Discussion</h5>

<p>Summary of the discussion:</p>
<p>Ralf: Data Aggregation Extension: decide after public review whether to have another CSD04 or whether to progress CSD03 to CS02</p>
<p>Ralf: Two tentative intentions of use, need three for progressing it to COS01 (Candidate OASIS Specification)</p>

 

<h4>6.2 Temporal CSD01</h4>

<h5>6.2.1 Work on final document delayed</h5>

<h5>6.2.2 Proposal: postpone to March 2016</h5>

<h5>6.2.3 Discussion</h5>
<p>Summary of the discussion:</p>
 
<p>Ralf: Temporal Extension: postpone by 6 months, focus on JSON CSDL and V4.01 until then</p>



<h4>6.3 JSON Format for CSDL 4.0 and OData Version 4.01</h4>

<h5>6.3.1 Document Organization</h5>

<h6>6.3.1.1 Split Part 3 CSDL into “Concept” and “XML” (see ODATA-743)</h6>

<ol><li>Problem: hard to give examples without being format-specific</li>
<li>Danger of redundancy</li></ol>

<h6>6.3.1.2 Merge JSON CSDL into Part 3</h6>

<ol><li>Problem: size of document</li></ol>

<h6>6.3.1.3 Option: split off “Metadata Service” into own document, mainly interesting for “update metadata” use cases</h6>

<ol><li>Mitigates size problem</li></ol>

<h5>6.3.2 Discussion</h5>
<p>Summary of the discussion:</p>
 
<p>Ralf: JSON CSDL: we'll use JSON Schema as the "carrier format" and decide how to map the OData-specific features (primitive type system, nullable, navigation, entity container and children) into JSON Schema</p>
<p>Ralf: Need to decide whether to optimize for non-OData-aware existing tools or whether to optimize for compactness and rely more on OData-specific extensions</p>

<p>Ralf: W.r.t. Document organization:</p>
<p>Ralf: Ralf to merge JSON CSDL parts of "Entity Type" chapter into Part 3</p>
<p>Ralf: Mike to figure out how to incorporate the "abstract/conceptual" part into Part 1</p>
<p>Ralf: Next meeting: next week, September 10</p>
<p>Ralf: Until then: review proposals of issues for V4.01</p>
 

<h4>6.4 JSON Format for CSDL 4.0</h4>

<h5>6.4.1 How to finalize the document?</h5>

<h6>6.4.1.1 Create issue for each gap or area of concern, e.g. primitive type mapping, nullability, enumerations, ...</h6>

<h6>6.4.1.2 Add concrete proposals</h6>

<h6>6.4.1.3 Discuss issues in [Proposed] state in TC</h6>

 

<h4>6.5 OData Version 4.01</h4>

<h5>6.5.1 How to attack the so far 45 issues?</h5>

<h6>6.5.1.1 Discuss issues in [Proposed] state: currently 18 issues</h6>

<h6>6.5.1.2 Add concrete proposals to remaining 27 issues, then discuss them in TC call: volunteers needed for adding proposals</h6>

 

<h3>7. Next meeting</h3>

<p>Thursday September 10, 2015 during 8-10am PDT / 17:00-19:00 CEST</p>
<p>Accepted</p>

<h3>8. AOB and wrap up</h3>

<p>None</p>

<h3>Meeting adjourned</h3>

</body>
</html>
