<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OData TC meeting #179 Thursday June 29, 2017</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font-family:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}p{margin:0.7ex 2.0em}pre{margin-left:4em;}
p.note{font-size:75%}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}
#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
<!-- # grep -v excluding_those_lines __file__ |shasum -a 512 -->
<!-- sha512_excluding_those_lines='0981cc7b148697a644228f3b161b7249775035b4459d02979515c5a956fa85882722a3ceeaae8cd0aa997cb2fd112079a9729a5a13583f9c17b86be2cf4de094' -->
</head>
<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OData TC meeting #179 Thursday June 29, 2017</h1>
<p>Acting chair: Ralf</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: odatatc
2017-06-29 0800-1000 PDT
</pre>
<h2 id="1">1. Roll call</h2>

<h3 id="1.1">1.1 Members present</h3>

<pre>
    George Ericson (Dell)
    Gerald Krause (SAP SE)
    Hubert Heijkers (IBM)
    Mark Biamonte (Progress Software)
    Martin Zurmuehl (SAP SE)
    Matthew Borges (SAP SE) a.k.a. Matt
    Michael Pizzo (IBM) a.k.a. Mike
    Ralf Handl (SAP SE)
    Stefan Hagen (Individual)
</pre>

<p>Quorum achieved. Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/event.php?event_id=43984">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=43984)</a>.</p>

<p>Notes taken by all and subsequently edited for readability by Stefan.</p>

<h2 id="2">2. Approve agenda</h2>
<p>Agenda is approved unchanged as published.</p>

<h2 id="3">3. Approve minutes from previous meeting(s)</h2>
<h3 id="3.1">3.1 Minutes from June 22, 2017 TC meeting #178</h3>
<p><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61046/odata-meeting-178_on-20170622-minutes.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61046/odata-meeting-178_on-20170622-minutes.html</a></p>
<p>Minutes approved unchanged as published.</p>

<h2 id="4">4. Review action items [<a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/members/action_items.php" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Link to Action item list</a>]</h2>
<h3 id="4.1">4.1 Action items due</h3>
<p>None</p>

<h2 id="5">5. Issues</h2>
<h3 id="5.1">5.1 Atom: to be DEFERRED</h3>
<p>Mike: how to distinguish these from "finally deferred" issues?</p>
<p><b>Hubert</b> I <b>move</b> we DEFER the issues related to the Atom Format: ODATA-573, ODATA-593, ODATA-595, ODATA-596, ODATA-648, ODATA-649, ODATA-653, ODATA-655, ODATA-658, ODATA-659, ODATA-677, ODATA-719, ODATA-764, ODATA-772, ODATA-792, ODATA-898 and ODATA-990. <b>Mark</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: No objections, motion passes</p>
<p>Ralf: "Finally deferred" have "Fix version: V5.0"</p>

<h3 id="5.2">5.2 CSDL JSON: to be CLOSED without action</h3>
<p><b>Hubert</b> I <b>move</b> we CLOSE the issue ODATA-872 without action as CSDL JSON does not use JSON Schema any more to describe payload structure. <b>Mike</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: ODATA-872 is CLOSED without action</p>

<h3 id="5.3">5.3 Vocabularies: APPLIED</h3>

<h4 id="5.3.1">5.3.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-844" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-844</a> - Provide JSON versions of the Core, Capabilities, Measures, and Aggregation vocabularies</h4>
<p>Ralf: Resolution: <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/commit/bbe3e3729f9fff53f679560eee370c14e8290e86" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/commit/bbe3e3729f9fff53f679560eee370c14e8290e86</a></p>

<p><b>George</b> I <b>move</b> to approve ODATA-844. <b>Hubert</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: ODATA-844 is CLOSED as applied</p>

<h4 id="5.3.2">5.3.2 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-886" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-886</a> - Need a stable reference to latest/current OASIS OData vocabularies</h4>
<p>Ralf: Resolution: <a href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/odata-vocabularies/v4.0/odata-vocabularies-v4.0.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">http://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/odata-vocabularies/v4.0/odata-vocabularies-v4.0.html</a> and <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies</a></p>

<p><b>George</b> I <b>move</b> to apply resolution to ODATA-866. <b>Martin</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: ODATA-886 is CLOSED as applied</p>


<h4 id="5.3.3">5.3.3 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1031" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1031</a> - Define term for links to related information</h4>
<p>Ralf: Resolution: <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/commit/c0e912b0d926d31f4866746fc0f12f2aa331bdfc" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/commit/c0e912b0d926d31f4866746fc0f12f2aa331bdfc</a></p>
<p>Ralf: Example in Core vocab:</p>
<pre>
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Links">
  &lt;Collection>
    &lt;Record>
      &lt;PropertyValue Property="rel" String="latest-version" />
      &lt;PropertyValue Property="href"
        String="https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/Org.OData.Core.V1.xml" />
    &lt;/Record>
  &lt;/Collection>
&lt;/Annotation>
</pre>
<p>Ralf: Idea: add link to MarkDown version of vocabulary</p>
<p><b>George</b> I <b>move</b> to apply resolution to ODATA-1031. <b>Mike</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Ralf: ODATA-1031 is CLOSED as applied</p>

<h3 id="5.4">5.4 Vocabularies: NEW or OPEN</h3>

<h4 id="5.4.1">5.4.1 <a href="https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/ODATA-1085" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ODATA-1085</a> - Decide how to use V4.01 features in OASIS vocabularies</h4>
<p>Ralf: In ODATA-958 we decided to use the new abstract types Edm.AnyPropertyPath in terms of the Capabilities vocabulary. <br>
Technically this requires to use Version="4.01" in the Edmx wrapper element (which we don't do yet). <br>
Should we provide to "versions" of the Capabilities vocabulary, one restricted to Version="4.0" constructs, and one using Version="4.01"? <br>
<br>
If yes, how should we do this technically: by creating a new schema name, e.g. Org.OData.Capabilities.V1_01, or by having two branches of the well-known current schema name. If the latter, which one is the "master" branch? <br>
<br>
How should this be reflected in the OData Vocabularies work product: should we continue to publish CSDs for version 4.0 and in parallel have CSDs for version 4.01?</p>
<p>George: naming convention for versions: would probably need a new major version, i.e. Capabilities.V2</p>
<p>Ralf: Current repo link: <a href="https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml</a></p>
<p>Mike: keep the namespace name, just use a different file name</p>
<p>Ralf: "file name with path" would be different if we create a new branch for V4.01</p>
<p>Mike: probably want two branches, one per CSDL version (4.0, 4.01)</p>
<p>Mike: then apply changes to both branches as long as they only use 4.0 features</p>
<p>Ralf:</p>
<pre>
xmlns:edm="http://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/ns/edm"
</pre>
<p>Mike: Current: <a href="https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml</a></p>
<p>Mike: V4.01: <a href="https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/4.01/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/4.01/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml</a></p>
<p>Mike: Optionally: V4.0: <a href="https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/4.0/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/4.0/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml</a></p>
<p>Mike: just have different file names, e.g. Org.OData.Capabilities.V1-4.01.xml</p>
<p>Ralf: Cheating our way out of that problem would be to resolve ODATA-958 by adding optional properties NonFilterableNavigationProperties and NonSortableNavigationProperties that are collections of Edm.NavigationPropertyPath</p>
<p>Mike: or add these to the NavigationPropertyRestriction type - Sortable, Filterable</p>
<p>Ralf: ODATA-1085 is OPEN</p>
<p>Mike: Here is the current capabilities definition for navigation property restrictions:</p>
<pre>
&lt;Term AppliesTo="EntitySet Collection" Type="Capabilities.NavigationRestrictionsType" Name="NavigationRestrictions">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Restrictions on navigating properties according to OData URL conventions"/>
&lt;/Term>
&lt;ComplexType Name="NavigationRestrictionsType">
&lt;Property Type="Capabilities.NavigationType" Name="Navigability">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Supported Navigability"/>
&lt;/Property>
&lt;Property Type="Collection(Capabilities.NavigationPropertyRestriction)" Name="RestrictedProperties" Nullable="false">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="List of navigation properties with restrictions"/>
&lt;/Property>
&lt;/ComplexType>
&lt;ComplexType Name="NavigationPropertyRestriction">
&lt;Property Type="Edm.NavigationPropertyPath" Name="NavigationProperty">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Navigation properties can be navigated"/>
&lt;/Property>
&lt;Property Type="Capabilities.NavigationType" Name="Navigability">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Navigation properties can be navigated to this level"/>
&lt;/Property>
&lt;/ComplexType>
&lt;EnumType Name="NavigationType">
&lt;Member Name="Recursive">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Navigation properties can be recursively navigated"/>
&lt;/Member>
&lt;Member Name="Single">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Navigation properties can be navigated to a single level"/>
&lt;/Member>
&lt;Member Name="None">
&lt;Annotation Term="Core.Description" String="Navigation properties are not navigable"/>
&lt;/Member>
&lt;/EnumType>
</pre>
<p>Mike: (from <a href="https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://oasis-tcs.github.io/odata-vocabularies/vocabularies/Org.OData.Capabilities.V1.xml</a>)</p>
<p>Mike: To come up with an alternative "4.0" proposal for ODATA-958</p>

<h2>6. Next meetings only bi-weekly during Summer vacation period?</h2>

<p>Mike: meet next week, decide then which meetings to have during July and August</p>

<h3>6.1 Next Meeting on Thursday July 06, 2017 during 8-10 am PDT (17:00-19:00 CEST)</h3> 
<p>Confirmed as next meeting</p>

<h3>6.2 Meetings following the next one (to be decided next week)</h3>
<ul>
<li>Thursday July 20, 2017 during 8-10 am PDT (17:00-19:00 CEST)</li>
<li>Thursday August 03, 2017 during 8-10 am PDT (17:00-19:00 CEST)</li>
<li>Thursday August 17, 2017 during 8-10 am PDT (17:00-19:00 CEST)</li>
<li>Thursday August 31, 2017 during 8-10 am PDT (17:00-19:00 CEST)</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="7">7. Data Aggregation</h2>
<h3 id="7.1">7.1 Gerald to walk us through the proposal on:</h3>
<h4 id="7.1.1">7.1.1 Grid-Like Access to Aggregated Data.docx</h4>
<p>URL = <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/60801/Grid-Like%20Access%20to%20Aggregated%20Data.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/60801/Grid-Like&nbsp;Access&nbsp;to&nbsp;Aggregated&nbsp;Data.docx</a></p>


<h2>8. AOB and wrap up</h2>
<p>None</p>

<p>Meeting adjourned by chair.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
