# Introduction

Meta object only!


## Conventions Used in This Document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

The ordering of the members of any JSON object defined in this
document MUST be considered irrelevant, as specified by [RFC4627].

The ordering of the elements of any JSON array defined in this
document MUST at least follow a stable ordering unless the specific
object's type it is a member of defines an absolute ordering, which
then takes precedence.

Some examples use the combination of a JavaScript single line comment
(//) followed by an ellipsis (...) as placeholder notation for
content deemed irrelevant by the authors and at that point. These
placeholders must of course be deleted or otherwise replaced, before
attempting to validate the corresponding JSON code example.

## Example

A JSON OData object:

    {
        "d": {
        // ...
        }
    }

Note that unquoted whitespace is not significant in JSON.
Whitespace is used in the examples inside this document to help
illustrate the data structures, but is not required.

# OData Version 4.0

## OData Version 4.0 Part 1: Protocol

Has normative references [RFC2046], [RFC2119], [RFC2616], [RFC3987], [RFC5023],
and [RFC5789].

And also:

* Snell, J., "Prefer Header for HTTP", draft-snell-http-prefer-18,
  January 2013.
  https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-snell-http-prefer/.

* Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed., “Hypertext Transfer Protocol
  (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax and Routing”
  draft-ietf-httpbis-p1-messaging-22, 23 February 2013.
  https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-httpbis-p1-messaging/.

* Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed., “Hypertext Transfer Protocol
  (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content”
  draft-ietf-httpbis-p2-semantics-22, 23 February 2013
  https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-httpbis-p2-semantics/.

## OData Version 4.0 Part 2: URL Conventions

Has normative references [RFC2119], [RFC2616], [RFC3986], [RFC3987],
and [RFC5023].

## OData Version 4.0 Part 3: Common Schema Definition Language (CSDL)

Has normative references [RFC2119] and [RFC6570].

# OData Version 4.0 Formats

## OData Atom Format Version 4.0

Has normative references [RFC2119], [RFC3986], [RFC3987], [RFC4287],
[RFC5023], [RFC5646], and [RFC6721].

## OData JSON Format Version 4.0

Has normative references [RFC2119], [RFC3986], [RFC3987], [RFC4627],
and [RFC5646].

# OData Version 4.0 Extensions

## OData Extension for Data Aggregation Version 4.0

Has normative reference [RFC2119].
